A () The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets. The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also the small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter, etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from the Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the first letter (/) of the Phoenician alphabet, the equivalent of the Hebrew Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a consonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not an element of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to represent their vowel Alpha with the a sound, the Phoenician alphabet having no vowel symbols.

A () The name of the sixth tone in the model major scale (that in C), or the first tone of the minor scale, which is named after it the scale in A minor. The second string of the violin is tuned to the A in the treble staff. -- A sharp (A/) is the name of a musical tone intermediate between A and B. -- A flat (A/) is the name of a tone intermediate between A and G.

A () An adjective, commonly called the indefinite article, and signifying one or any, but less emphatically.

A () In each; to or for each; as, twenty leagues a day, a hundred pounds a year, a dollar a yard, etc.

A (prep.) In; on; at; by.

A (prep.) In process of; in the act of; into; to; -- used with verbal substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a shortened form of the preposition an (which was used before the vowel sound); as in a hunting, a building, a begging.

A () Of.

A () A barbarous corruption of have, of he, and sometimes of it and of they.

A () An expletive, void of sense, to fill up the meter

A- () A, as a prefix to English words, is derived from various sources. (1) It frequently signifies on or in (from an, a forms of AS. on), denoting a state, as in afoot, on foot, abed, amiss, asleep, aground, aloft, away (AS. onweg), and analogically, ablaze, atremble, etc. (2) AS. of off, from, as in adown (AS. ofd/ne off the dun or hill). (3) AS. a- (Goth. us-, ur-, Ger. er-), usually giving an intensive force, and sometimes the sense of away, on, back, as in arise, abide, ago. (4) Old English y- or i- (corrupted from the AS. inseparable particle ge-, cognate with OHG. ga-, gi-, Goth. ga-), which, as a prefix, made no essential addition to the meaning, as in aware. (5) French a (L. ad to), as in abase, achieve. (6) L. a, ab, abs, from, as in avert. (7) Greek insep. prefix / without, or privative, not, as in abyss, atheist; akin to E. un-.

A 1 () A registry mark given by underwriters (as at Lloyd's) to ships in first-class condition. Inferior grades are indicated by A 2 and A 3.

Aam (n.) A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36 1/2, at Hamburg 38 1/4.

Aard-vark (n.) An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its long, slimy tongue.

Aard-wolf (n.) A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa, resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.

Aaronic (a.) Alt. of Aaronical

Aaronical (a.) Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.

Aaron's rod () A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing from the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.

Aaron's rod () A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great mullein, or hag-taper, and the golden-rod.

Ab- () A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away , separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-(6).

Ab (n.) The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation, coinciding nearly with August.

Abaca (n.) The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See Manila hemp under Manila.

Abacinate (v. t.) To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes.

Abacination (n.) The act of abacinating.

Abaciscus (n.) One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an abaculus.

Abacist (n.) One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.

Aback (adv.) Toward the back or rear; backward.

Aback (adv.) Behind; in the rear.

Aback (adv.) Backward against the mast; -- said of the sails when pressed by the wind.

Aback (n.) An abacus.

Abactinal (a.) Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal.

Abaction (n.) Stealing cattle on a large scale.

Abactor (n.) One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or droves.

Abaculi (pl. ) of Abaculus

Abaculus (n.) A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.

Abacuses (pl. ) of Abacus

Abaci (pl. ) of Abacus

Abacus (n.) A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing, calculating, etc.

Abacus (n.) A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens, etc. It is still employed in China.

Abacus (n.) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column, immediately under the architrave. See Column.

Abacus (n.) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.

Abacus (n.) A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or sideboard.

Abada (n.) The rhinoceros.

Abaddon (n.) The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as Apollyon and Asmodeus.

Abaddon (n.) Hell; the bottomless pit.

Abaft (prep.) Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse.

Abaft (adv.) Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.

Abaisance (n.) Obeisance.

Abaiser (n.) Ivory black or animal charcoal.

Abaist (p. p.) Abashed; confounded; discomfited.

Abalienate (v. t.) To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.

Abalienate (v. t.) To estrange; to withdraw.

Abalienate (v. t.) To cause alienation of (mind).

Abalienation (n.) The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement.

Abalone (n.) A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear. Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging closely to the rocks.

Aband (v. t.) To abandon.

Aband (v. t.) To banish; to expel.

Abandoned (imp. & p. p.) of Abandon

Abandoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abandon

Abandon (v. t.) To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject.

Abandon (v. t.) To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly; to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to surrender.

Abandon (v. t.) Reflexively: To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-control; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly; -- often in a bad sense.

Abandon (v. t.) To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured against.

Abandon (v.) Abandonment; relinquishment.

Abandon (n.) A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.

Abandoned (a.) Forsaken, deserted.

Abandoned (a.) Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.

Abandonedly (adv.) Unrestrainedly.

Abandonee (n.) One to whom anything is legally abandoned.

Abandoner (n.) One who abandons.

Abandonment (n.) The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total desertion; relinquishment.

Abandonment (n.) The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril insured against.

Abandonment (n.) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to mill site, etc.

Abandonment (n.) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.

Abandonment (n.) Careless freedom or ease; abandon.

Abandum (n.) Anything forfeited or confiscated.

Abanet (n.) See Abnet.

Abanga (n.) A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.

Abannation (n.) Alt. of Abannition

Abannition (n.) Banishment.

Abarticulation (n.) Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of free motion in the joint; diarthrosis.

Abased (imp. & p. p.) of Abase

Abasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abase

Abase (a.) To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye.

Abase (a.) To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to degrade.

Abased (a.) Lowered; humbled.

Abased (a.) Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.

Abasedly (adv.) Abjectly; downcastly.

Abasement (n.) The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of being abased or humbled; humiliation.

Abaser (n.) He who, or that which, abases.

Abashed (imp. & p. p.) of Abash

Abashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abash

Abash (v. t.) To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.

Abashedly (adv.) In an abashed manner.

Abashment (n.) The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.

Abassi (n.) Alt. of Abassis

Abassis (n.) A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.

Abatable (a.) Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.

Abated (imp. & p. p.) of Abate

Abating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abate

Abate (v. t.) To beat down; to overthrow.

Abate (v. t.) To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; to cut short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.

Abate (v. t.) To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.

Abate (v. t.) To blunt.

Abate (v. t.) To reduce in estimation; to deprive.

Abate (v. t.) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with; as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ.

Abate (v. t.) To diminish; to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets.

Abate (v. t.) To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as, pain abates, a storm abates.

Abate (v. t.) To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to fail; as, a writ abates.

Abate (n.) Abatement.

Abatement (n.) The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening, diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.

Abatement (n.) The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of reduction; deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.

Abatement (n.) A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.

Abatement (n.) The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.

Abater (n.) One who, or that which, abates.

Abatis (n.) Alt. of Abattis

Abattis (n.) A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.

Abatised (a.) Provided with an abatis.

Abator (n.) One who abates a nuisance.

Abator (n.) A person who, without right, enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.

Abattoirs (pl. ) of Abattoir

Abattoir (n.) A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.

Abature (n.) Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing through them.

Abatvoix (n.) The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.

Abawed (p. p.) Astonished; abashed.

Abaxial (a.) Alt. of Abaxile

Abaxile (a.) Away from the axis or central line; eccentric.

Abay (n.) Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay.

Abb (n.) Among weavers, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for the abb.

Abba (n.) Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to the patriarch.

Abbacies (pl. ) of Abbacy

Abbacy (n.) The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.

Abbatial (a.) Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.

Abbatical (a.) Abbatial.

Abbe (n.) The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.

Abbess (n.) A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have over the monks. See Abbey.

Abbeys (pl. ) of Abbey

Abbey (n.) A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic building or buildings.

Abbey (n.) The church of a monastery.

Abbot (n.) The superior or head of an abbey.

Abbot (n.) One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys.

Abbotship (n.) The state or office of an abbot.

Abbreviated (imp. & p. p.) of Abbreviate

Abbreviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abbreviate

Abbreviate (v. t.) To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction or omission, especially of words written or spoken.

Abbreviate (v. t.) To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.

Abbreviate (a.) Abbreviated; abridged; shortened.

Abbreviate (a.) Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the ordinary type.

Abbreviate (n.) An abridgment.

Abbreviated (a.) Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.

Abbreviation (n.) The act of shortening, or reducing.

Abbreviation (n.) The result of abbreviating; an abridgment.

Abbreviation (n.) The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of America.

Abbreviation (n.) One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers.

Abbreviator (n.) One who abbreviates or shortens.

Abbreviator (n.) One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal court whose duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition, or reply of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into official form.

Abbreviatory (a.) Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.

Abbreviature (n.) An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form.

Abbreviature (n.) An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.

Abb wool () See Abb.

A B C () The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole alphabet.

A B C () A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of reading.

A B C () The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of finance.

Abdal (n.) A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.

Abderian (a.) Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.

Abderite (n.) An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace.

Abdest (n.) Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a Mohammedan rite.

Abdicable (a.) Capable of being abdicated.

Abdicant (a.) Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.

Abdicant (n.) One who abdicates.

Abdicated (imp. & p. p.) of Abdicate

Abdicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abdicate

Abdicate (v. t.) To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to withdraw definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office, station, dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.

Abdicate (v. t.) To renounce; to relinquish; -- said of authority, a trust, duty, right, etc.

Abdicate (v. t.) To reject; to cast off.

Abdicate (v. t.) To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child; to disown; to disinherit.

Abdicate (v. i.) To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or dignity.

Abdication (n.) The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office, dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power, authority.

Abdicative (a.) Causing, or implying, abdication.

Abdicator (n.) One who abdicates.

Abditive (a.) Having the quality of hiding.

Abditory (n.) A place for hiding or preserving articles of value.

Abdomen (n.) The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic cavity.

Abdomen (n.) The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda.

Abdominal (a.) Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal regions, muscles, cavity.

Abdominal (a.) Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as, abdominal fishes.

Abdominals (pl. ) of Abdominal

Abdominales (pl. ) of Abdominal

Abdominal (n.) A fish of the group Abdominales.

Abdominales (n. pl.) A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind the pectorals.

Abdominalia (n. pl.) A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.

Abdominoscopy (n.) Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.

Abdominothoracic (a.) Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.

Abdominous (a.) Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.

Abduced (imp. & p. p.) of Abduce

Abducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abduce

Abduce (v. t.) To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different part.

Abducted (imp. & p. p.) of Abduct

Abducting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abduct

Abduct (v. t.) To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.

Abduct (v. t.) To draw away, as a limb or other part, from its ordinary position.

Abduction (n.) The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a carrying away.

Abduction (n.) The movement which separates a limb or other part from the axis, or middle line, of the body.

Abduction (n.) The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of a human being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an heiress.

Abduction (n.) A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident, but the minor is only probable.

Abductor (n.) One who abducts.

Abductor (n.) A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the median line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye outward.

Abeam (adv.) On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.

Abear (v. t.) To bear; to behave.

Abear (v. t.) To put up with; to endure.

Abearance (n.) Behavior.

Abearing (n.) Behavior.

Abecedarian (n.) One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.

Abecedarian (n.) One engaged in teaching the alphabet.

Abecedarian (a.) Alt. of Abecedary

Abecedary (a.) Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet; alphabetic; hence, rudimentary.

Abecedary (n.) A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything.

Abed (adv.) In bed, or on the bed.

Abed (adv.) To childbed (in the phrase brought abed, that is, delivered of a child).

Abegge () Same as Aby.

Abele (n.) The white poplar (Populus alba).

Abelian (n.) Alt. of Abelonian

Abelite (n.) Alt. of Abelonian

Abelonian (n.) One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St. Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.

Abelmosk (n.) An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus -- moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes called musk mallow.

Aber-de-vine (n.) The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.

Aberr (v. i.) To wander; to stray.

Aberrance (n.) Alt. of Aberrancy

Aberrancy (n.) State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way; deviation from truth, rectitude, etc.

Aberrant (a.) Wandering; straying from the right way.

Aberrant (a.) Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional; abnormal.

Aberrate (v. i.) To go astray; to diverge.

Aberration (n.) The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth or moral rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type.

Aberration (n.) A partial alienation of reason.

Aberration (n.) A small periodical change of position in the stars and other heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when the observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and daily or diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''. Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the motion of the planet relative to the earth.

Aberration (n.) The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays of light emanating from one and the same point, or the deviation of such rays from a single focus; called spherical aberration, when due to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.

Aberration (n.) The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate for it.

Aberration (n.) The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing of an instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.

Aberrational (a.) Characterized by aberration.

Aberuncate (v. t.) To weed out.

Aberuncator (n.) A weeding machine.

Abetted (imp. & p. p.) of Abet

Abetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abet

Abet (v. t.) To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection.

Abet (v. t.) To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense.

Abet (v. t.) To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission of an offense.

Abet (n.) Act of abetting; aid.

Abetment (n.) The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.

Abettal (n.) Abetment.

Abetter (n.) Alt. of Abettor

Abettor (n.) One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.

Abevacuation (n.) A partial evacuation.

Abeyance (n.) Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.

Abeyance (n.) Suspension; temporary suppression.

Abeyancy (n.) Abeyance.

Abeyant (a.) Being in a state of abeyance.

Abhal (n.) The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.

Abhominable (a.) Abominable.

Abhominal (a.) Inhuman.

Abhorred (imp. & p. p.) of Abhor

Abhorring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abhor

Abhor (v. t.) To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to extremity; to loathe.

Abhor (v. t.) To fill with horror or disgust.

Abhor (v. t.) To protest against; to reject solemnly.

Abhor (v. i.) To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary or averse; -- with

Abhorrence (n.) Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.

Abhorrency (n.) Abhorrence.

Abhorrent (a.) Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence; loathing; hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.

Abhorrent (a.) Contrary or repugnant; discordant; inconsistent; -- followed by to.

Abhorrent (a.) Detestable.

Abhorrently (adv.) With abhorrence.

Abhorrer (n.) One who abhors.

Abhorrible (a.) Detestable.

Abhorring (n.) Detestation.

Abhorring (n.) Object of abhorrence.

Abib (n.) The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity this month was called Nisan.

Abidance (n.) The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).

Abode (imp. & p. p.) of Abide

Abid () of Abide

Abiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abide

Abide (v. i.) To wait; to pause; to delay.

Abide (v. i.) To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in before a place.

Abide (v. i.) To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to continue; to remain.

Abide (v. t.) To wait for; to be prepared for; to await; to watch for; as, I abide my time.

Abide (v. t.) To endure; to sustain; to submit to.

Abide (v. t.) To bear patiently; to tolerate; to put up with.

Abide (v. t.) To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.

Abider (n.) One who abides, or continues.

Abider (n.) One who dwells; a resident.

Abiding (a.) Continuing; lasting.

Abidingly (adv.) Permanently.

Abies (n.) A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to this genus.

Abietene (n.) A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.

Abietic (a.) Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic acid, called also sylvic acid.

Abietin (n.) Alt. of Abietine

Abietine (n.) A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam. It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic acid, and in ether.

Abietinic (a.) Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.

Abietite (n.) A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata).

Abigail (n.) A lady's waiting-maid.

Abiliment (n.) Habiliment.

Abilities (pl. ) of Ability

Ability (n.) The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity; skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill, resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.

Abime (n.) Alt. of Abyme

Abyme (n.) A abyss.

Abiogenesis (n.) The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed to biogenesis.

Abiogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to abiogenesis.

Abiogenist (n.) One who believes that life can be produced independently of antecedent.

Abiogenous (a.) Produced by spontaneous generation.

Abiogeny (n.) Same as Abiogenesis.

Abiological (a.) Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.

Abirritant (n.) A medicine that diminishes irritation.

Abirritate (v. t.) To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.

Abirritation (n.) A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation; debility; want of strength; asthenia.

Abirritative (a.) Characterized by abirritation or debility.

Abit () 3d sing. pres. of Abide.

Abject (a.) Cast down; low-lying.

Abject (a.) Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; degraded; servile; groveling; despicable; as, abject posture, fortune, thoughts.

Abject (a.) To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to debase.

Abject (n.) A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a castaway.

Abjectedness (n.) A very abject or low condition; abjectness.

Abjection (n.) The act of bringing down or humbling.

Abjection (n.) The state of being rejected or cast out.

Abjection (n.) A low or downcast state; meanness of spirit; abasement; degradation.

Abjectly (adv.) Meanly; servilely.

Abjectness (n.) The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.

Abjudge (v. t.) To take away by judicial decision.

Abjudicate (v. t.) To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge.

Abjudication (n.) Rejection by judicial sentence.

Abjugate (v. t.) To unyoke.

Abjunctive (a.) Exceptional.

Abjuration (n.) The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon oath; as, abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to leave the country and never to return.

Abjuration (n.) A solemn recantation or renunciation; as, an abjuration of heresy.

Abjuratory (a.) Containing abjuration.

Abjured (imp. & p. p.) of Abjure

Abjuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abjure

Abjure (v. t.) To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to abandon it forever.

Abjure (v. t.) To renounce or reject with solemnity; to recant; to abandon forever; to reject; repudiate; as, to abjure errors.

Abjure (v. i.) To renounce on oath.

Abjurement (n.) Renunciation.

Abjurer (n.) One who abjures.

Ablactate (v. t.) To wean.

Ablactation (n.) The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young beasts from their dam.

Ablactation (n.) The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting by approach.

Ablaqueate (v. t.) To lay bare, as the roots of a tree.

Ablaqueation (n.) The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose them to the air and water.

Ablastemic (a.) Non-germinal.

Ablation (n.) A carrying or taking away; removal.

Ablation (n.) Extirpation.

Ablation (n.) Wearing away; superficial waste.

Ablatitious (a.) Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force.

Ablative (a.) Taking away or removing.

Ablative (a.) Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal, separation, or taking away.

Ablative () The ablative case.

Ablaut (n.) The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung.

Ablaze (adv. & a.) On fire; in a blaze, gleaming.

Ablaze (adv. & a.) In a state of glowing excitement or ardent desire.

Able (superl.) Fit; adapted; suitable.

Able (superl.) Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent; qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able to work; a mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to endure pain; able to play on a piano.

Able (superl.) Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful; as, the ablest man in the senate; an able speech.

Able (superl.) Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to inherit or devise property.

Able (a.) To make able; to enable; to strengthen.

Able (a.) To vouch for.

-able () An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to be; fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense; as, movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable, fit to be blamed; salable.

Able-bodied (a.) Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust.

Ablegate (v. t.) To send abroad.

Ablegate (n.) A representative of the pope charged with important commissions in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a newly named cardinal his insignia of office.

Ablegation (n.) The act of sending abroad.

Able-minded (a.) Having much intellectual power.

Ableness (n.) Ability of body or mind; force; vigor.

Ablepsy (n.) Blindness.

Abler (a.) comp. of Able.

Abler (a.) superl. of Able.

Ablet () Alt. of Ablen

Ablen () A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.

Abligate (v. t.) To tie up so as to hinder from.

Abligurition (n.) Prodigal expense for food.

Ablins (adv.) Perhaps.

Abloom (adv.) In or into bloom; in a blooming state.

Ablude (v. t.) To be unlike; to differ.

Abluent (a.) Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.

Abluent (n.) A detergent.

Ablush (adv. & a.) Blushing; ruddy.

Ablution (n.) The act of washing or cleansing; specifically, the washing of the body, or some part of it, as a religious rite.

Ablution (n.) The water used in cleansing.

Ablution (n.) A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then, as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk by the priest.

Ablutionary (a.) Pertaining to ablution.

Abluvion (n.) That which is washed off.

Ably (adv.) In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned, said.

-ably () A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as, favorably.

Abnegated (imp. & p. p.) of Abnegate

Abnegating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abnegate

Abnegate (v. t.) To deny and reject; to abjure.

Abnegation (n.) a denial; a renunciation.

Abnegative (a.) Denying; renouncing; negative.

Abnegator (n.) One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything.

Abnet (n.) The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.

Abnodate (v. t.) To clear (tress) from knots.

Abnodation (n.) The act of cutting away the knots of trees.

Abnormal (a.) Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type; anomalous; irregular.

Abnormalities (pl. ) of Abnormality

Abnormality (n.) The state or quality of being abnormal; variation; irregularity.

Abnormality (n.) Something abnormal.

Abnormally (adv.) In an abnormal manner; irregularly.

Abnormities (pl. ) of Abnormity

Abnormity (n.) Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.

Abnormous (a.) Abnormal; irregular.

Aboard (adv.) On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within a railway car.

Aboard (adv.) Alongside; as, close aboard.

Aboard (prep.) On board of; as, to go aboard a ship.

Aboard (prep.) Across; athwart.

Abodance (n.) An omen; a portending.

Abode () pret. of Abide.

Abode (n.) Act of waiting; delay.

Abode (n.) Stay or continuance in a place; sojourn.

Abode (n.) Place of continuance, or where one dwells; abiding place; residence; a dwelling; a habitation.

Abode (v. t.) An omen.

Abode (v. t.) To bode; to foreshow.

Abode (v. i.) To be ominous.

Abodement (n.) A foreboding; an omen.

Aboding (n.) A foreboding.

Abolished (imp. & p. p.) of Abolish

Abolishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abolish

Abolish (v. t.) To do away with wholly; to annul; to make void; -- said of laws, customs, institutions, governments, etc.; as, to abolish slavery, to abolish folly.

Abolish (v. t.) To put an end to, or destroy, as a physical objects; to wipe out.

Abolishable (a.) Capable of being abolished.

Abolisher (n.) One who abolishes.

Abolishment (n.) The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction.

Abolition (n.) The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees, ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.

Abolitionism (n.) The principles or measures of abolitionists.

Abolitionist (n.) A person who favors the abolition of any institution, especially negro slavery.

Abolitionize (v. t.) To imbue with the principles of abolitionism.

Aboma (n.) A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).

Abomasum (n.) Alt. of Abomasus

Abomasus (n.) The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from the third stomach omasum. See Ruminantia.

Abominable (a.) Worthy of, or causing, abhorrence, as a thing of evil omen; odious in the utmost degree; very hateful; detestable; loathsome; execrable.

Abominable (a.) Excessive; large; -- used as an intensive.

Abominableness (n.) The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness.

Abominably (adv.) In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.

Abominated (imp. & p. p.) of Abominate

Abominating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abominate

Abominate (v. t.) To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, as if with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.

Abomination (n.) The feeling of extreme disgust and hatred; abhorrence; detestation; loathing; as, he holds tobacco in abomination.

Abomination (n.) That which is abominable; anything hateful, wicked, or shamefully vile; an object or state that excites disgust and hatred; a hateful or shameful vice; pollution.

Abomination (n.) A cause of pollution or wickedness.

Aboon (prep.) and adv. Above.

Aboral (a.) Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.

Abord (n.) Manner of approaching or accosting; address.

Abord (v. t.) To approach; to accost.

Aboriginal (a.) First; original; indigenous; primitive; native; as, the aboriginal tribes of America.

Aboriginal (a.) Of or pertaining to aborigines; as, a Hindoo of aboriginal blood.

Aboriginal (n.) An original inhabitant of any land; one of the aborigines.

Aboriginal (n.) An animal or a plant native to the region.

Aboriginality (n.) The quality of being aboriginal.

Aboriginally (adv.) Primarily.

Aborigines (n. pl.) The earliest known inhabitants of a country; native races.

Aborigines (n. pl.) The original fauna and flora of a geographical area

Aborsement (n.) Abortment; abortion.

Aborsive (a.) Abortive.

Abort (v. i.) To miscarry; to bring forth young prematurely.

Abort (v. i.) To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain rudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile.

Abort (n.) An untimely birth.

Abort (n.) An aborted offspring.

Aborted (a.) Brought forth prematurely.

Aborted (a.) Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normal development at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches.

Aborticide (n.) The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.

Abortifacient (v.) Producing miscarriage.

Abortifacient (n.) A drug or an agent that causes premature delivery.

Abortion (n.) The act of giving premature birth; particularly, the expulsion of the human fetus prematurely, or before it is capable of sustaining life; miscarriage.

Abortion (n.) The immature product of an untimely birth.

Abortion (n.) Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains an imperfect formation or is absorbed.

Abortion (n.) Any fruit or produce that does not come to maturity, or anything which in its progress, before it is matured or perfect; a complete failure; as, his attempt proved an abortion.

Abortional (a.) Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive.

Abortionist (n.) One who procures abortion or miscarriage.

Abortive (v.) Produced by abortion; born prematurely; as, an abortive child.

Abortive (v.) Made from the skin of a still-born animal; as, abortive vellum.

Abortive (v.) Rendering fruitless or ineffectual.

Abortive (v.) Coming to naught; failing in its effect; miscarrying; fruitless; unsuccessful; as, an abortive attempt.

Abortive (v.) Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, an abortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.

Abortive (v.) Causing abortion; as, abortive medicines.

Abortive (v.) Cutting short; as, abortive treatment of typhoid fever.

Abortive (n.) That which is born or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.

Abortive (n.) A fruitless effort or issue.

Abortive (n.) A medicine to which is attributed the property of causing abortion.

Abortively (adv.) In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.

Abortiveness (n.) The quality of being abortive.

Abortment (n.) Abortion.

Abought () imp. & p. p. of Aby.

Abounded (imp. & p. p.) of Abound

Abounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abound

Abound (v. i.) To be in great plenty; to be very prevalent; to be plentiful.

Abound (v. i.) To be copiously supplied; -- followed by in or with.

About (prep.) Around; all round; on every side of.

About (prep.) In the immediate neighborhood of; in contiguity or proximity to; near, as to place; by or on (one's person).

About (prep.) Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout.

About (prep.) Near; not far from; -- determining approximately time, size, quantity.

About (prep.) In concern with; engaged in; intent on.

About (prep.) On the point or verge of; going; in act of.

About (prep.) Concerning; with regard to; on account of; touching.

About (adv.) On all sides; around.

About (adv.) In circuit; circularly; by a circuitous way; around the outside; as, a mile about, and a third of a mile across.

About (adv.) Here and there; around; in one place and another.

About (adv.) Nearly; approximately; with close correspondence, in quality, manner, degree, etc.; as, about as cold; about as high; -- also of quantity, number, time.

About (adv.) To a reserved position; half round; in the opposite direction; on the opposite tack; as, to face about; to turn one's self about.

About-sledge (n.) The largest hammer used by smiths.

Above (prep.) In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.

Above (prep.) Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; surpassing; beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things above comprehension; above mean actions; conduct above reproach.

Above (prep.) Surpassing in number or quantity; more than; as, above a hundred. (Passing into the adverbial sense. See Above, adv., 4.)

Above (adv.) In a higher place; overhead; into or from heaven; as, the clouds above.

Above (adv.) Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a foregoing page.

Above (adv.) Higher in rank or power; as, he appealed to the court above.

Above (adv.) More than; as, above five hundred were present.

Aboveboard (adv.) Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick, concealment, or deception.

Above-cited (a.) Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.

Abovedeck (a.) On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice.

Above-mentioned (a.) Alt. of Above-named

Above-named (a.) Mentioned or named before; aforesaid.

Abovesaid (a.) Mentioned or recited before.

Abox (adv. & a.) Braced aback.

Abracadabra (n.) A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in the figure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. At present the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something without meaning; jargon.

Abradant (n.) A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass, etc.

Abraded (imp. & p. p.) of Abrade

Abrading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abrade

Abrade (v. t.) To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to abrade rocks.

Abrade (v. t.) Same as Abraid.

Abrahamic (a.) Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamic covenant.

Abrahamitic (a.) Alt. of ical

ical (a.) Relating to the patriarch Abraham.

Abraham-man (n.) Alt. of Abram-man

Abram-man (n.) One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England, feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms.

Abraid (v. t. & i.) To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.

Abranchial (a.) Abranchiate.

Abranchiata (n. pl.) A group of annelids, so called because the species composing it have no special organs of respiration.

Abranchiate (a.) Without gills.

Abrase (a.) Rubbed smooth.

Abrasion (n.) The act of abrading, wearing, or rubbing off; the wearing away by friction; as, the abrasion of coins.

Abrasion (n.) The substance rubbed off.

Abrasion (n.) A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under the form of small shreds.

Abrasive (a.) Producing abrasion.

Abraum (n.) Alt. of Abraum salts

Abraum salts (n.) A red ocher used to darken mahogany and for making chloride of potassium.

Abraxas (n.) A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among the ancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.

Abray (v.) See Abraid.

Abreast (adv.) Side by side, with breasts in a line; as, Two men could hardly walk abreast.

Abreast (adv.) Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the vessel's beam; -- with of.

Abreast (adv.) Up to a certain level or line; equally advanced; as, to keep abreast of [or with] the present state of science.

Abreast (adv.) At the same time; simultaneously.

Abregge (v. t.) See Abridge.

Abrenounce (v. t.) To renounce.

Abrenunciation (n.) Absolute renunciation or repudiation.

Abreption (n.) A snatching away.

Abreuvoir (n.) The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled with mortar.

Abricock (n.) See Apricot.

Abridged (imp. & p. p.) of Abridge

Abridging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abridge

Abridge (v. t.) To make shorter; to shorten in duration; to lessen; to diminish; to curtail; as, to abridge labor; to abridge power or rights.

Abridge (v. t.) To shorten or contract by using fewer words, yet retaining the sense; to epitomize; to condense; as, to abridge a history or dictionary.

Abridge (v. t.) To deprive; to cut off; -- followed by of, and formerly by from; as, to abridge one of his rights.

Abridger (n.) One who abridges.

Abridgment (n.) The act of abridging, or the state of being abridged; diminution; lessening; reduction or deprivation; as, an abridgment of pleasures or of expenses.

Abridgment (n.) An epitome or compend, as of a book; a shortened or abridged form; an abbreviation.

Abridgment (n.) That which abridges or cuts short; hence, an entertainment that makes the time pass quickly.

Abroach (v. t.) To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap.

Abroach (adv.) Broached; in a condition for letting out or yielding liquor, as a cask which is tapped.

Abroach (adv.) Hence: In a state to be diffused or propagated; afoot; astir.

Abroad (adv.) At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads its branches abroad.

Abroad (adv.) Without a certain confine; outside the house; away from one's abode; as, to walk abroad.

Abroad (adv.) Beyond the bounds of a country; in foreign countries; as, we have broils at home and enemies abroad.

Abroad (adv.) Before the public at large; throughout society or the world; here and there; widely.

Abrogable (a.) Capable of being abrogated.

Abrogate (a.) Abrogated; abolished.

Abrogated (imp. & p. p.) of Abrogate

Abrogating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abrogate

Abrogate (v. t.) To annul by an authoritative act; to abolish by the authority of the maker or his successor; to repeal; -- applied to the repeal of laws, decrees, ordinances, the abolition of customs, etc.

Abrogate (v. t.) To put an end to; to do away with.

Abrogation (n.) The act of abrogating; repeal by authority.

Abrogative (a.) Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.

Abrogator (n.) One who repeals by authority.

Abrood (adv.) In the act of brooding.

Abrook (v. t.) To brook; to endure.

Abrupt (a.) Broken off; very steep, or craggy, as rocks, precipices, banks; precipitous; steep; as, abrupt places.

Abrupt (a.) Without notice to prepare the mind for the event; sudden; hasty; unceremonious.

Abrupt (a.) Having sudden transitions from one subject to another; unconnected.

Abrupt (a.) Suddenly terminating, as if cut off.

Abrupt (n.) An abrupt place.

Abrupt (v. t.) To tear off or asunder.

Abruption (n.) A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.

Abruptly (adv.) In an abrupt manner; without giving notice, or without the usual forms; suddenly.

Abruptly (adv.) Precipitously.

Abruptness (n.) The state of being abrupt or broken; craggedness; ruggedness; steepness.

Abruptness (n.) Suddenness; unceremonious haste or vehemence; as, abruptness of style or manner.

Abscesses (pl. ) of Abscess

Abscess (n.) A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organ of the body, the result of a morbid process.

Abscession (n.) A separating; removal; also, an abscess.

Abscind (v. t.) To cut off.

Abscision (n.) See Abscission.

Abscisses (pl. ) of Absciss

Absciss (n.) See Abscissa.

Abscissas (pl. ) of Abscissa

Abscissae (pl. ) of Abscissa

Abscissa (n.) One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coordinate axes.

Abscission (n.) The act or process of cutting off.

Abscission (n.) The state of being cut off.

Abscission (n.) A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to say a thing stops abruptly: thus, He is a man of so much honor and candor, and of such generosity -- but I need say no more.

Absconded (imp. & p. p.) of Abscond

Absconding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abscond

Abscond (v. i.) To hide, withdraw, or be concealed.

Abscond (v. i.) To depart clandestinely; to steal off and secrete one's self; -- used especially of persons who withdraw to avoid a legal process; as, an absconding debtor.

Abscond (v. t.) To hide; to conceal.

Abscondence (n.) Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding.

Absconder (n.) One who absconds.

Absence (n.) A state of being absent or withdrawn from a place or from companionship; -- opposed to presence.

Absence (n.) Want; destitution; withdrawal.

Absence (n.) Inattention to things present; abstraction (of mind); as, absence of mind.

Absent (a.) Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present.

Absent (a.) Not existing; lacking; as, the part was rudimental or absent.

Absent (a.) Inattentive to what is passing; absent-minded; preoccupied; as, an absent air.

Absented (imp. & p. p.) of Absent

Absenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Absent

Absent (v. t.) To take or withdraw (one's self) to such a distance as to prevent intercourse; -- used with the reflexive pronoun.

Absent (v. t.) To withhold from being present.

Absentaneous (a.) Pertaining to absence.

Absentation (n.) The act of absenting one's self.

Absentee (n.) One who absents himself from his country, office, post, or duty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country or district than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irish absentee.

Absenteeism (n.) The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice of absenting one's self from the country or district where one's estate is situated.

Absenter (n.) One who absents one's self.

Absently (adv.) In an absent or abstracted manner.

Absentment (n.) The state of being absent; withdrawal.

Absent-minded (a.) Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.

Absentness (n.) The quality of being absent-minded.

Absey-book (n.) An A-B-C book; a primer.

Absinthate (n.) A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positive radical.

Absinth (n.) Alt. of Absinthe

Absinthe (n.) The plant absinthium or common wormwood.

Absinthe (n.) A strong spirituous liqueur made from wormwood and brandy or alcohol.

Absinthial (a.) Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.

Absinthian (n.) Of the nature of wormwood.

Absinthiate (v. t.) To impregnate with wormwood.

Absinthiated (a.) Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.

Absinthic (a.) Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.

Absinthin (n.) The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium).

Absinthism (n.) The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use of absinth.

Absinthium (n.) The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitter plant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.

Absis (n.) See Apsis.

Absist (v. i.) To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist.

Absistence (n.) A standing aloof.

Absolute (a.) Loosed from any limitation or condition; uncontrolled; unrestricted; unconditional; as, absolute authority, monarchy, sovereignty, an absolute promise or command; absolute power; an absolute monarch.

Absolute (a.) Complete in itself; perfect; consummate; faultless; as, absolute perfection; absolute beauty.

Absolute (a.) Viewed apart from modifying influences or without comparison with other objects; actual; real; -- opposed to relative and comparative; as, absolute motion; absolute time or space.

Absolute (a.) Loosed from, or unconnected by, dependence on any other being; self-existent; self-sufficing.

Absolute (a.) Capable of being thought or conceived by itself alone; unconditioned; non-relative.

Absolute (a.) Positive; clear; certain; not doubtful.

Absolute (a.) Authoritative; peremptory.

Absolute (a.) Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.

Absolute (a.) Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in government; as, the case absolute. See Ablative absolute, under Ablative.

Absolute (n.) In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at infinity; in space of three dimensions, the imaginary circle at infinity.

Absolutely (adv.) In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly; positively.

Absoluteness (n.) The quality of being absolute; independence of everything extraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality; positiveness.

Absolution (n.) An absolving, or setting free from guilt, sin, or penalty; forgiveness of an offense.

Absolution (n.) An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accused person innocent.

Absolution (n.) The exercise of priestly jurisdiction in the sacrament of penance, by which Catholics believe the sins of the truly penitent are forgiven.

Absolution (n.) An absolving from ecclesiastical penalties, -- for example, excommunication.

Absolution (n.) The form of words by which a penitent is absolved.

Absolution (n.) Delivery, in speech.

Absolutism (n.) The state of being absolute; the system or doctrine of the absolute; the principles or practice of absolute or arbitrary government; despotism.

Absolutism (n.) Doctrine of absolute decrees.

Absolutist (n.) One who is in favor of an absolute or autocratic government.

Absolutist (n.) One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition or concept of the absolute.

Absolutist (a.) Of or pertaining to absolutism; arbitrary; despotic; as, absolutist principles.

Absolutistic (a.) Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.

Absolutory (a.) Serving to absolve; absolving.

Absolvable (a.) That may be absolved.

Absolvatory (a.) Conferring absolution; absolutory.

Absolved (imp. & p. p.) of Absolve

Absolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Absolve

Absolve (v. t.) To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or responsibility, or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it would be sin or guilt to violate; to pronounce free; as, to absolve a subject from his allegiance; to absolve an offender, which amounts to an acquittal and remission of his punishment.

Absolve (v. t.) To free from a penalty; to pardon; to remit (a sin); -- said of the sin or guilt.

Absolve (v. t.) To finish; to accomplish.

Absolve (v. t.) To resolve or explain.

Absolvent (a.) Absolving.

Absolvent (n.) An absolver.

Absolver (n.) One who absolves.

Absonant (a.) Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant.

Absonous (a.) Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous.

Absorbed (imp. & p. p.) of Absorb

Absorbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Absorb

Absorb (v. t.) To swallow up; to engulf; to overwhelm; to cause to disappear as if by swallowing up; to use up; to include.

Absorb (v. t.) To suck up; to drink in; to imbibe; as a sponge or as the lacteals of the body.

Absorb (v. t.) To engross or engage wholly; to occupy fully; as, absorbed in study or the pursuit of wealth.

Absorb (v. t.) To take up by cohesive, chemical, or any molecular action, as when charcoal absorbs gases. So heat, light, and electricity are absorbed or taken up in the substances into which they pass.

Absorbability (n.) The state or quality of being absorbable.

Absorbable (a.) Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up.

Absorbedly (adv.) In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.

Absorbency (n.) Absorptiveness.

Absorbent (a.) Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive.

Absorbent (n.) Anything which absorbs.

Absorbent (n.) Any substance which absorbs and neutralizes acid fluid in the stomach and bowels, as magnesia, chalk, etc.; also a substance e. g., iodine) which acts on the absorbent vessels so as to reduce enlarged and indurated parts.

Absorbent (n.) The vessels by which the processes of absorption are carried on, as the lymphatics in animals, the extremities of the roots in plants.

Absorber (n.) One who, or that which, absorbs.

Absorbing (a.) Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.

Absorbition (n.) Absorption.

Absorpt (a.) Absorbed.

Absorption (n.) The act or process of absorbing or sucking in anything, or of being absorbed and made to disappear; as, the absorption of bodies in a whirlpool, the absorption of a smaller tribe into a larger.

Absorption (n.) An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as, the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.

Absorption (n.) In living organisms, the process by which the materials of growth and nutrition are absorbed and conveyed to the tissues and organs.

Absorption (n.) Entire engrossment or occupation of the mind; as, absorption in some employment.

Absorptive (a.) Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe.

Absorptiveness (n.) The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.

Absorptivity (n.) Absorptiveness.

Absquatulate (v. i.) To take one's self off; to decamp.

Absque hoc () The technical words of denial used in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated.

Abstained (imp. & p. p.) of Abstain

Abstaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abstain

Abstain (v. i.) To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily, and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; -- with from.

Abstain (v. t.) To hinder; to withhold.

Abstainer (n.) One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use of intoxicating liquors.

Abstemious (a.) Abstaining from wine.

Abstemious (a.) Sparing in diet; refraining from a free use of food and strong drinks; temperate; abstinent; sparing in the indulgence of the appetite or passions.

Abstemious (a.) Sparingly used; used with temperance or moderation; as, an abstemious diet.

Abstemious (a.) Marked by, or spent in, abstinence; as, an abstemious life.

Abstemious (a.) Promotive of abstemiousness.

Abstemiousness (n.) The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in the use of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree of abstinence than temperance.

Abstention (a.) The act of abstaining; a holding aloof.

Abstentious (a.) Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining.

Absterge (v. t.) To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, to purge.

Abstergent (a.) Serving to cleanse, detergent.

Abstergent (n.) A substance used in cleansing; a detergent; as, soap is an abstergent.

Absterse (v. t.) To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away.

Abstersion (n.) Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.

Abstersive (a.) Cleansing; purging.

Abstersive (n.) Something cleansing.

Abstersiveness (n.) The quality of being abstersive.

Abstinence (n.) The act or practice of abstaining; voluntary forbearance of any action, especially the refraining from an indulgence of appetite, or from customary gratifications of animal or sensual propensities. Specifically, the practice of abstaining from intoxicating beverages, -- called also total abstinence.

Abstinence (n.) The practice of self-denial by depriving one's self of certain kinds of food or drink, especially of meat.

Abstinency (n.) Abstinence.

Abstinent (a.) Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence of appetite; abstemious; continent; temperate.

Abstinent (n.) One who abstains.

Abstinent (n.) One of a sect who appeared in France and Spain in the 3d century.

Abstinently (adv.) With abstinence.

Abstorted (a.) Wrested away.

Abstract (a.) Withdraw; separate.

Abstract (a.) Considered apart from any application to a particular object; separated from matter; existing in the mind only; as, abstract truth, abstract numbers. Hence: ideal; abstruse; difficult.

Abstract (a.) Expressing a particular property of an object viewed apart from the other properties which constitute it; -- opposed to concrete; as, honesty is an abstract word.

Abstract (a.) Resulting from the mental faculty of abstraction; general as opposed to particular; as, reptile is an abstract or general name.

Abstract (a.) Abstracted; absent in mind.

Abstracted (imp. & p. p.) of Abstract

Abstracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abstract

Abstract (a.) To withdraw; to separate; to take away.

Abstract (a.) To draw off in respect to interest or attention; as, his was wholly abstracted by other objects.

Abstract (a.) To separate, as ideas, by the operation of the mind; to consider by itself; to contemplate separately, as a quality or attribute.

Abstract (a.) To epitomize; to abridge.

Abstract (a.) To take secretly or dishonestly; to purloin; as, to abstract goods from a parcel, or money from a till.

Abstract (a.) To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of a substance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this sense extract is now more generally used.

Abstract (v. t.) To perform the process of abstraction.

Abstract (a.) That which comprises or concentrates in itself the essential qualities of a larger thing or of several things. Specifically: A summary or an epitome, as of a treatise or book, or of a statement; a brief.

Abstract (a.) A state of separation from other things; as, to consider a subject in the abstract, or apart from other associated things.

Abstract (a.) An abstract term.

Abstract (a.) A powdered solid extract of a vegetable substance mixed with sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract represents two parts of the original substance.

Abstracted (a.) Separated or disconnected; withdrawn; removed; apart.

Abstracted (a.) Separated from matter; abstract; ideal.

Abstracted (a.) Abstract; abstruse; difficult.

Abstracted (a.) Inattentive to surrounding objects; absent in mind.

Abstractedly (adv.) In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.

Abstractedness (n.) The state of being abstracted; abstract character.

Abstracter (n.) One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.

Abstraction (a.) The act of abstracting, separating, or withdrawing, or the state of being withdrawn; withdrawal.

Abstraction (a.) The act process of leaving out of consideration one or more properties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis. Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or the color of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act is called abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness, virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.

Abstraction (a.) An idea or notion of an abstract, or theoretical nature; as, to fight for mere abstractions.

Abstraction (a.) A separation from worldly objects; a recluse life; as, a hermit's abstraction.

Abstraction (a.) Absence or absorption of mind; inattention to present objects.

Abstraction (a.) The taking surreptitiously for one's own use part of the property of another; purloining.

Abstraction (a.) A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation.

Abstractional (a.) Pertaining to abstraction.

Abstractionist (n.) An idealist.

Abstractitious (a.) Obtained from plants by distillation.

Abstractive (a.) Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature.

Abstractively (adv.) In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself.

Abstractiveness (n.) The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.

Abstractly (adv.) In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; by itself; as, matter abstractly considered.

Abstractness (n.) The quality of being abstract.

Abstringe (v. t.) To unbind.

Abstrude (v. t.) To thrust away.

Abstruse (a.) Concealed or hidden out of the way.

Abstruse (a.) Remote from apprehension; difficult to be comprehended or understood; recondite; as, abstruse learning.

Abstrusely (adv.) In an abstruse manner.

Abstruseness (n.) The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.

Abstrusion (n.) The act of thrusting away.

Abstrusity (n.) Abstruseness; that which is abstruse.

Absume (v. t.) To consume gradually; to waste away.

Absumption (n.) Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction.

Absurd (a.) Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream.

Absurd (n.) An absurdity.

Absurdities (pl. ) of Absurdity

Absurdity (n.) The quality of being absurd or inconsistent with obvious truth, reason, or sound judgment.

Absurdity (n.) That which is absurd; an absurd action; a logical contradiction.

Absurdly (adv.) In an absurd manner.

Absurdness (n.) Absurdity.

Abuna (n.) The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.

Abundance (n.) An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty; profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictly applicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number.

Abundant (a.) Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed by in, rarely by with.

Abundantly (adv.) In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in large measure.

Aburst (adv.) In a bursting condition.

Abusable (a.) That may be abused.

Abusage (n.) Abuse.

Abused (imp. & p. p.) of Abuse

Abusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abuse

Abuse (v. t.) To put to a wrong use; to misapply; to misuse; to put to a bad use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to pervert; as, to abuse inherited gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to abuse one's authority.

Abuse (v. t.) To use ill; to maltreat; to act injuriously to; to punish or to tax excessively; to hurt; as, to abuse prisoners, to abuse one's powers, one's patience.

Abuse (v. t.) To revile; to reproach coarsely; to disparage.

Abuse (v. t.) To dishonor.

Abuse (v. t.) To violate; to ravish.

Abuse (v. t.) To deceive; to impose on.

Abuse (v. t.) Improper treatment or use; application to a wrong or bad purpose; misuse; as, an abuse of our natural powers; an abuse of civil rights, or of privileges or advantages; an abuse of language.

Abuse (v. t.) Physical ill treatment; injury.

Abuse (v. t.) A corrupt practice or custom; offense; crime; fault; as, the abuses in the civil service.

Abuse (v. t.) Vituperative words; coarse, insulting speech; abusive language; virulent condemnation; reviling.

Abuse (v. t.) Violation; rape; as, abuse of a female child.

Abuseful (a.) Full of abuse; abusive.

Abuser (n.) One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].

Abusion (v. t.) Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception; cheat.

Abusive (a.) Wrongly used; perverted; misapplied.

Abusive (a.) Given to misusing; also, full of abuses.

Abusive (a.) Practicing abuse; prone to ill treat by coarse, insulting words or by other ill usage; as, an abusive author; an abusive fellow.

Abusive (a.) Containing abuse, or serving as the instrument of abuse; vituperative; reproachful; scurrilous.

Abusive (a.) Tending to deceive; fraudulent; cheating.

Abusively (adv.) In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.

Abusiveness (n.) The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violence to the person.

Abutted (imp. & p. p.) of Abut

Abutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abut

Abut (v. i.) To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet; -- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.

Abutilon (n.) A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in the torrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indian mallow.

Abutment (n.) State of abutting.

Abutment (n.) That on or against which a body abuts or presses

Abutment (n.) The solid part of a pier or wall, etc., which receives the thrust or lateral pressure of an arch, vault, or strut.

Abutment (n.) A fixed point or surface from which resistance or reaction is obtained, as the cylinder head of a steam engine, the fulcrum of a lever, etc.

Abutment (n.) In breech-loading firearms, the block behind the barrel which receives the pressure due to recoil.

Abuttal (n.) The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; a headland.

Abutter (n.) One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of a contiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.

Abuzz (a.) In a buzz; buzzing.

Abought (imp. & p. p.) of Abye

Aby (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Abye

Abye (v. t. & i.) To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to give satisfaction.

Abye (v. t. & i.) To endure; to abide.

Abysm (n.) An abyss; a gulf.

Abysmal (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending; profound.

Abysmally (adv.) To a fathomless depth; profoundly.

Abyss (n.) A bottomless or unfathomed depth, gulf, or chasm; hence, any deep, immeasurable, and, specifically, hell, or the bottomless pit.

Abyss (n.) Infinite time; a vast intellectual or moral depth.

Abyss (n.) The center of an escutcheon.

Abyssal (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable.

Abyssinian (a.) Of or pertaining to Abyssinia.

Abyssinian (n.) A native of Abyssinia.

Abyssinian (n.) A member of the Abyssinian Church.

Acacia (n.) A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors, as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals.

Acacias (pl. ) of Acacia

Acaciae (pl. ) of Acacia

Acacia (n.) A genus of leguminous trees and shrubs. Nearly 300 species are Australian or Polynesian, and have terete or vertically compressed leaf stalks, instead of the bipinnate leaves of the much fewer species of America, Africa, etc. Very few are found in temperate climates.

Acacia (n.) The inspissated juice of several species of acacia; -- called also gum acacia, and gum arabic.

Acacin (n.) Alt. of Acacine

Acacine (n.) Gum arabic.

Academe (n.) An academy.

Academial (a.) Academic.

Academian (n.) A member of an academy, university, or college.

Academic (a.) Alt. of Academical

Academical (a.) Belonging to the school or philosophy of Plato; as, the Academic sect or philosophy.

Academical (a.) Belonging to an academy or other higher institution of learning; scholarly; literary or classical, in distinction from scientific.

Academic (n.) One holding the philosophy of Socrates and Plato; a Platonist.

Academic (n.) A member of an academy, college, or university; an academician.

Academically (adv.) In an academical manner.

Academicals (n. pl.) The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges and universities.

Academician (n.) A member of an academy, or society for promoting science, art, or literature, as of the French Academy, or the Royal Academy of arts.

Academician (n.) A collegian.

Academicism (n.) A tenet of the Academic philosophy.

Academicism (n.) A mannerism or mode peculiar to an academy.

Academism (n.) The doctrines of the Academic philosophy.

Academist (n.) An Academic philosopher.

Academist (n.) An academician.

Academies (pl. ) of Academy

Academy (n.) A garden or grove near Athens (so named from the hero Academus), where Plato and his followers held their philosophical conferences; hence, the school of philosophy of which Plato was head.

Academy (n.) An institution for the study of higher learning; a college or a university. Popularly, a school, or seminary of learning, holding a rank between a college and a common school.

Academy (n.) A place of training; a school.

Academy (n.) A society of learned men united for the advancement of the arts and sciences, and literature, or some particular art or science; as, the French Academy; the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; academies of literature and philology.

Academy (n.) A school or place of training in which some special art is taught; as, the military academy at West Point; a riding academy; the Academy of Music.

Acadian (a.) Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia.

Acadian (n.) A native of Acadie.

Acajou (n.) The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew.

Acajou (n.) The mahogany tree; also, its timber.

Acalephs (pl. ) of Acalephan

Acalephans (pl. ) of Acalephan

Acaleph (n.) Alt. of Acalephan

Acalephan (n.) One of the Acalephae.

Acalephae (n. pl.) A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusae or jellyfishes, and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess. Sometimes called sea nettles.

Acalephoid (a.) Belonging to or resembling the Acalephae or jellyfishes.

Acalycine (a.) Alt. of Acalysinous

Acalysinous (a.) Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope.

Acanth (n.) Same as Acanthus.

Acantha (n.) A prickle.

Acantha (n.) A spine or prickly fin.

Acantha (n.) The vertebral column; the spinous process of a vertebra.

Acanthaceous (a.) Armed with prickles, as a plant.

Acanthaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the acanthus is the type.

Acanthine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.

Acanthocarpous (a.) Having the fruit covered with spines.

Acanthocephala (n. pl.) A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed with recurved spines.

Acanthocephalous (a.) Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.

Acanthophorous (a.) Spine-bearing.

Acanthopodious (a.) Having spinous petioles.

Acanthopteri (n. pl.) A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. See Acanthopterygii.

Acanthopterous (a.) Spiny-winged.

Acanthopterous (a.) Acanthopterygious.

Acanthopterygian (a.) Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as the perch.

Acanthopterygian (n.) A spiny-finned fish.

Acanthopterygii (n. pl.) An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal, ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.

Acanthopterygious (a.) Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny-finned.

Acanthuses (pl. ) of Acanthus

Acanthi (pl. ) of Acanthus

Acanthus (n.) A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south of Europe, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.

Acanthus (n.) An ornament resembling the foliage or leaves of the acanthus (Acanthus spinosus); -- used in the capitals of the Corinthian and Composite orders.

A cappella () In church or chapel style; -- said of compositions sung in the old church style, without instrumental accompaniment; as, a mass a capella, i. e., a mass purely vocal.

A cappella () A time indication, equivalent to alla breve.

Acapsular (a.) Having no capsule.

Acardiac (a.) Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.

Acaridan (n.) One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.

Acarina (n. pl.) The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Many species are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange.

Acarine (a.) Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.

Acaroid (a.) Shaped like or resembling a mite.

Acarpellous (a.) Having no carpels.

Acarpous (a.) Not producing fruit; unfruitful.

Acari (pl. ) of Acarus

Acarus (n.) A genus including many species of small mites.

Acatalectic (a.) Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.

Acatalectic (n.) A verse which has the complete number of feet and syllables.

Acatalepsy (n.) Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancient Skeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts to certainty, but only to probability.

Acataleptic (a.) Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.

Acater (n.) See Caterer.

Acates (n. pl.) See Cates.

Acaudate (a.) Tailless.

Acaulescent (a.) Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed in the ground.

Acauline (a.) Same as Acaulescent.

Acaulose (a.) Alt. of Acaulous

Acaulous (a.) Same as Acaulescent.

Accadian (a.) Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia before the Assyrian conquest.

Acceded (imp. & p. p.) of Accede

Acceding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accede

Accede (v. i.) To approach; to come forward; -- opposed to recede.

Accede (v. i.) To enter upon an office or dignity; to attain.

Accede (v. i.) To become a party by associating one's self with others; to give one's adhesion. Hence, to agree or assent to a proposal or a view; as, he acceded to my request.

Accedence (n.) The act of acceding.

Acceder (n.) One who accedes.

Accelerando (a.) Gradually accelerating the movement.

Accelerated (imp. & p. p.) of Accelerate

Accelerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accelerate

Accelerate (v. t.) To cause to move faster; to quicken the motion of; to add to the speed of; -- opposed to retard.

Accelerate (v. t.) To quicken the natural or ordinary progression or process of; as, to accelerate the growth of a plant, the increase of wealth, etc.

Accelerate (v. t.) To hasten, as the occurence of an event; as, to accelerate our departure.

Acceleration (n.) The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated; increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward the earth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.

Accelerative (a.) Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening.

Accelerator (n.) One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as, accelerator nerves.

Acceleratory (a.) Accelerative.

Accelerograph (n.) An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns, etc.

Accelerometer (n.) An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.

Accend (v. t.) To set on fire; to kindle.

Accendibility (n.) Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed; inflammability.

Accendible (a.) Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.

Accension (n.) The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.

Accensor (n.) One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.

Accent (n.) A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the others.

Accent (n.) A mark or character used in writing, and serving to regulate the pronunciation; esp.: (a) a mark to indicate the nature and place of the spoken accent; (b) a mark to indicate the quality of sound of the vowel marked; as, the French accents.

Accent (n.) Modulation of the voice in speaking; manner of speaking or pronouncing; peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice; tone; as, a foreign accent; a French or a German accent.

Accent (n.) A word; a significant tone

Accent (n.) expressions in general; speech.

Accent (n.) Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.

Accent (n.) A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning, and, more feebly, the third part of the measure.

Accent (n.) A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the measure.

Accent (n.) The rhythmical accent, which marks phrases and sections of a period.

Accent (n.) The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage.

Accent (n.) A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind expressed by the same letter, but differing in value, as y', y''.

Accent (n.) A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating minutes of a degree, seconds, etc.; as, 12'27'', i. e., twelve minutes twenty seven seconds.

Accent (n.) A mark used to denote feet and inches; as, 6' 10'' is six feet ten inches.

Accented (imp. & p. p.) of Accent

Accenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accent

Accent (v. t.) To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to utter or to mark with accent.

Accent (v. t.) To mark emphatically; to emphasize.

Accentless (a.) Without accent.

Accentor (n.) One who sings the leading part; the director or leader.

Accentor (n.) A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes), including the hedge warbler. In America sometimes applied to the water thrushes.

Accentuable (a.) Capable of being accented.

Accentual (a.) Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.

Accentuality (n.) The quality of being accentual.

Accentually (adv.) In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.

Accentuated (imp. & p. p.) of Accentuate

Accentuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accentuate

Accentuate (v. t.) To pronounce with an accent or with accents.

Accentuate (v. t.) To bring out distinctly; to make prominent; to emphasize.

Accentuate (v. t.) To mark with the written accent.

Accentuation (n.) Act of accentuating; applications of accent.

Accentuation (n.) pitch or modulation of the voice in reciting portions of the liturgy.

Accepted (imp. & p. p.) of Accept

Accepting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accept

Accept (v. t.) To receive with a consenting mind (something offered); as, to accept a gift; -- often followed by of.

Accept (v. t.) To receive with favor; to approve.

Accept (v. t.) To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to; as, I accept your proposal, amendment, or excuse.

Accept (v. t.) To take by the mind; to understand; as, How are these words to be accepted?

Accept (v. t.) To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept a bill of exchange.

Accept (v. t.) In a deliberate body, to receive in acquittance of a duty imposed; as, to accept the report of a committee. [This makes it the property of the body, and the question is then on its adoption.]

Accept (a.) Accepted.

Acceptability (n.) The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness.

Acceptable (a.) Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received with pleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as, an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.

Acceptableness (n.) The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorably received; acceptability.

Acceptably (adv.) In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or give satisfaction.

Acceptance (n.) The act of accepting; a receiving what is offered, with approbation, satisfaction, or acquiescence; esp., favorable reception; approval; as, the acceptance of a gift, office, doctrine, etc.

Acceptance (n.) State of being accepted; acceptableness.

Acceptance (n.) An assent and engagement by the person on whom a bill of exchange is drawn, to pay it when due according to the terms of the acceptance.

Acceptance (n.) The bill itself when accepted.

Acceptance (n.) An agreeing to terms or proposals by which a bargain is concluded and the parties are bound; the reception or taking of a thing bought as that for which it was bought, or as that agreed to be delivered, or the taking possession as owner.

Acceptance (n.) An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds the person in law.

Acceptance (n.) Meaning; acceptation.

Acceptancy (n.) Acceptance.

Acceptant (a.) Accepting; receiving.

Acceptant (n.) An accepter.

Acceptation (n.) Acceptance; reception; favorable reception or regard; state of being acceptable.

Acceptation (n.) The meaning in which a word or expression is understood, or generally received; as, term is to be used according to its usual acceptation.

Acceptedly (adv.) In a accepted manner; admittedly.

Accepter (n.) A person who accepts; a taker.

Accepter (n.) A respecter; a viewer with partiality.

Accepter (n.) An acceptor.

Acceptilation (n.) Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation without payment; free remission.

Acception (n.) Acceptation; the received meaning.

Acceptive (a.) Fit for acceptance.

Acceptive (a.) Ready to accept.

Acceptor (n.) One who accepts

Acceptor (n.) one who accepts an order or a bill of exchange; a drawee after he has accepted.

Access (n.) A coming to, or near approach; admittance; admission; accessibility; as, to gain access to a prince.

Access (n.) The means, place, or way by which a thing may be approached; passage way; as, the access is by a neck of land.

Access (n.) Admission to sexual intercourse.

Access (n.) Increase by something added; addition; as, an access of territory. [In this sense accession is more generally used.]

Access (n.) An onset, attack, or fit of disease.

Access (n.) A paroxysm; a fit of passion; an outburst; as, an access of fury.

Accessarily (adv.) In the manner of an accessary.

Accessariness (n.) The state of being accessary.

Accessary (a.) Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp., uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor. See Accessory.

Accessaries (pl. ) of Accessary

Accessary (n.) One who, not being present, contributes as an assistant or instigator to the commission of an offense.

Accessibility (n.) The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach; receptibility.

Accessible (a.) Easy of access or approach; approachable; as, an accessible town or mountain, an accessible person.

Accessible (a.) Open to the influence of; -- with to.

Accessible (a.) Obtainable; to be got at.

Accessibly (adv.) In an accessible manner.

Accession (n.) A coming to; the act of acceding and becoming joined; as, a king's accession to a confederacy.

Accession (n.) Increase by something added; that which is added; augmentation from without; as, an accession of wealth or territory.

Accession (n.) A mode of acquiring property, by which the owner of a corporeal substance which receives an addition by growth, or by labor, has a right to the part or thing added, or the improvement (provided the thing is not changed into a different species). Thus, the owner of a cow becomes the owner of her calf.

Accession (n.) The act by which one power becomes party to engagements already in force between other powers.

Accession (n.) The act of coming to or reaching a throne, an office, or dignity; as, the accession of the house of Stuart; -- applied especially to the epoch of a new dynasty.

Accession (n.) The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit or paroxysm.

Accessional (a.) Pertaining to accession; additional.

Accessive (a.) Additional.

Accessorial (a.) Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency, accessorial guilt.

Accessorily (adv.) In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.

Accessoriness (n.) The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately.

Accessory (a.) Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way; additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal; contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, when of persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was accessory to the riot; accessory sounds in music.

Accessories (pl. ) of Accessory

Accessory (n.) That which belongs to something else deemed the principal; something additional and subordinate.

Accessory (n.) Same as Accessary, n.

Accessory (n.) Anything that enters into a work of art without being indispensably necessary, as mere ornamental parts.

Acciaccatura (n.) A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it is prefixed; -- used especially in organ music. Now used as equivalent to the short appoggiatura.

Accidence (n.) The accidents, of inflections of words; the rudiments of grammar.

Accidence (n.) The rudiments of any subject.

Accident (n.) Literally, a befalling; an event that takes place without one's foresight or expectation; an undesigned, sudden, and unexpected event; chance; contingency; often, an undesigned and unforeseen occurrence of an afflictive or unfortunate character; a casualty; a mishap; as, to die by an accident.

Accident (n.) A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, as gender, number, case.

Accident (n.) A point or mark which may be retained or omitted in a coat of arms.

Accident (n.) A property or quality of a thing which is not essential to it, as whiteness in paper; an attribute.

Accident (n.) A quality or attribute in distinction from the substance, as sweetness, softness.

Accident (n.) Any accidental property, fact, or relation; an accidental or nonessential; as, beauty is an accident.

Accident (n.) Unusual appearance or effect.

Accidental (a.) Happening by chance, or unexpectedly; taking place not according to the usual course of things; casual; fortuitous; as, an accidental visit.

Accidental (a.) Nonessential; not necessary belonging; incidental; as, are accidental to a play.

Accidental (n.) A property which is not essential; a nonessential; anything happening accidentally.

Accidental (n.) Those fortuitous effects produced by luminous rays falling on certain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightness and other parts are cast into a deep shadow.

Accidental (n.) A sharp, flat, or natural, occurring not at the commencement of a piece of music as the signature, but before a particular note.

Accidentalism (n.) Accidental character or effect.

Accidentality (n.) The quality of being accidental; accidentalness.

Accidentally (adv.) In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance; unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially.

Accidentalness (n.) The quality of being accidental; casualness.

Accidie (n.) Sloth; torpor.

Accipenser (n.) See Acipenser.

Accipient (n.) A receiver.

Accipiters (pl. ) of Accipiter

Accipitres (pl. ) of Accipiter

Accipiter (n.) A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.

Accipiter (n.) A bandage applied over the nose, resembling the claw of a hawk.

Accipitral (n.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike.

Accipitres (n. pl.) The order that includes rapacious birds. They have a hooked bill, and sharp, strongly curved talons. There are three families, represented by the vultures, the falcons or hawks, and the owls.

Accipitrine (a.) Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike.

Accismus (n.) Affected refusal; coyness.

Accite (v. t.) To cite; to summon.

Acclaim (v. t.) To applaud.

Acclaim (v. t.) To declare by acclamations.

Acclaim (v. t.) To shout; as, to acclaim my joy.

Acclaim (v. i.) To shout applause.

Acclaim (n.) Acclamation.

Acclaimer (n.) One who acclaims.

Acclamation (n.) A shout of approbation, favor, or assent; eager expression of approval; loud applause.

Acclamation (n.) A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of people expressing joy.

Acclamatory (a.) Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation.

Acclimatable (a.) Capable of being acclimated.

Acclimatation (n.) Acclimatization.

Acclimated (imp. & p. p.) of Acclimate

Acclimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acclimate

Acclimate (v. t.) To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize.

Acclimatement (n.) Acclimation.

Acclimation (n.) The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, or habituated to a new climate; acclimatization.

Acclimatizable (a.) Capable of being acclimatized.

Acclimatization (n.) The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a new climate, or the state of being so inured.

Acclimatized (imp. & p. p.) of Acclimatize

Acclimatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acclimatize

Acclimatize (v. t.) To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which is natural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strange climate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants.

Acclimature (n.) The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated.

Acclive (a.) Acclivous.

Acclivitous (a.) Acclivous.

Acclivities (pl. ) of Acclivity

Acclivity (n.) A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill, considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending; an upward slope; ascent.

Acclivous (a.) Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous.

Accloy (v. t.) To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to burden. See Cloy.

Accoast (v. t. & i.) To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost.

Accoil (v. t.) To gather together; to collect.

Accoil (v. t.) To coil together.

Accolade (n.) A ceremony formerly used in conferring knighthood, consisting am embrace, and a slight blow on the shoulders with the flat blade of a sword.

Accolade (n.) A brace used to join two or more staves.

Accombination (n.) A combining together.

Accommodable (a.) That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree.

Accommodableness (n.) The quality or condition of being accommodable.

Accommodated (imp. & p. p.) of Accommodate

Accommodating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accommodate

Accommodate (v. t.) To render fit, suitable, or correspondent; to adapt; to conform; as, to accommodate ourselves to circumstances.

Accommodate (v. t.) To bring into agreement or harmony; to reconcile; to compose; to adjust; to settle; as, to accommodate differences, a dispute, etc.

Accommodate (v. t.) To furnish with something desired, needed, or convenient; to favor; to oblige; as, to accommodate a friend with a loan or with lodgings.

Accommodate (v. t.) To show the correspondence of; to apply or make suit by analogy; to adapt or fit, as teachings to accidental circumstances, statements to facts, etc.; as, to accommodate prophecy to events.

Accommodate (v. i.) To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted.

Accommodate (a.) Suitable; fit; adapted; as, means accommodate to end.

Accommodately (adv.) Suitably; fitly.

Accommodateness (n.) Fitness.

Accommodating (a.) Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; as an accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.

Accommodation (n.) The act of fitting or adapting, or the state of being fitted or adapted; adaptation; adjustment; -- followed by to.

Accommodation (n.) Willingness to accommodate; obligingness.

Accommodation (n.) Whatever supplies a want or affords ease, refreshment, or convenience; anything furnished which is desired or needful; -- often in the plural; as, the accommodations -- that is, lodgings and food -- at an inn.

Accommodation (n.) An adjustment of differences; state of agreement; reconciliation; settlement.

Accommodation (n.) The application of a writer's language, on the ground of analogy, to something not originally referred to or intended.

Accommodation (n.) A loan of money.

Accommodation (n.) An accommodation bill or note.

Accommodator (n.) He who, or that which, accommodates.

Accompanable (a.) Sociable.

Accompanier (n.) He who, or that which, accompanies.

Accompaniment (n.) That which accompanies; something that attends as a circumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to the principal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry.

Accompaniment (n.) A part performed by instruments, accompanying another part or parts performed by voices; the subordinate part, or parts, accompanying the voice or a principal instrument; also, the harmony of a figured bass.

Accompanist (n.) The performer in music who takes the accompanying part.

Accompanied (imp. & p. p.) of Accompany

Accompanying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accompany

Accompany (v. t.) To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company with; to go along with; -- followed by with or by; as, he accompanied his speech with a bow.

Accompany (v. t.) To cohabit with.

Accompany (v. i.) To associate in a company; to keep company.

Accompany (v. i.) To cohabit (with).

Accompany (v. i.) To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition.

Accompletive (a.) Tending to accomplish.

Accomplice (n.) A cooperator.

Accomplice (n.) An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in an offense, whether a principal or an accessory.

Accompliceship (n.) The state of being an accomplice.

Accomplicity (n.) The act or state of being an accomplice.

Accomplished (imp. & p. p.) of Accomplish

Accomplishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accomplish

Accomplish (v. t.) To complete, as time or distance.

Accomplish (v. t.) To bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform; to execute fully; to fulfill; as, to accomplish a design, an object, a promise.

Accomplish (v. t.) To equip or furnish thoroughly; hence, to complete in acquirements; to render accomplished; to polish.

Accomplish (v. t.) To gain; to obtain.

Accomplishable (a.) Capable of being accomplished; practicable.

Accomplished (a.) Completed; effected; established; as, an accomplished fact.

Accomplished (a.) Complete in acquirements as the result usually of training; -- commonly in a good sense; as, an accomplished scholar, an accomplished villain.

Accomplisher (n.) One who accomplishes.

Accomplishment (n.) The act of accomplishing; entire performance; completion; fulfillment; as, the accomplishment of an enterprise, of a prophecy, etc.

Accomplishment (n.) That which completes, perfects, or equips thoroughly; acquirement; attainment; that which constitutes excellence of mind, or elegance of manners, acquired by education or training.

Accompt (n.) See Account.

Accomptable (a.) See Accountable.

Accomptant (n.) See Accountant.

Accord (v. t.) Agreement or concurrence of opinion, will, or action; harmony of mind; consent; assent.

Accord (v. t.) Harmony of sounds; agreement in pitch and tone; concord; as, the accord of tones.

Accord (v. t.) Agreement, harmony, or just correspondence of things; as, the accord of light and shade in painting.

Accord (v. t.) Voluntary or spontaneous motion or impulse to act; -- preceded by own; as, of one's own accord.

Accord (v. t.) An agreement between parties in controversy, by which satisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed, bars a suit.

Accorded (imp. & p. p.) of Accord

According (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accord

Accord (v. t.) To make to agree or correspond; to suit one thing to another; to adjust; -- followed by to.

Accord (v. t.) To bring to an agreement, as persons; to reconcile; to settle, adjust, harmonize, or compose, as things; as, to accord suits or controversies.

Accord (v. t.) To grant as suitable or proper; to concede; to award; as, to accord to one due praise.

Accord (v. i.) To agree; to correspond; to be in harmony; -- followed by with, formerly also by to; as, his disposition accords with his looks.

Accord (v. i.) To agree in pitch and tone.

Accordable (a.) Agreeing.

Accordable (a.) Reconcilable; in accordance.

Accordance (n.) Agreement; harmony; conformity.

Accordancy (n.) Accordance.

Accordant (a.) Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; -- followed by with or to.

Accordantly (adv.) In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followed by with or to.

Accorder (n.) One who accords, assents, or concedes.

According (p. a.) Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious.

According (adv.) Accordingly; correspondingly.

Accordingly (adv.) Agreeably; correspondingly; suitably; in a manner conformable.

Accordingly (adv.) In natural sequence; consequently; so.

Accordion (n.) A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones are generated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.

Accordionist (n.) A player on the accordion.

Accordment (v.) Agreement; reconcilement.

Accorporate (v. t.) To unite; to attach; to incorporate.

Accosted (imp. & p. p.) of Accost

Accosting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accost

Accost (v. t.) To join side to side; to border; hence, to sail along the coast or side of.

Accost (v. t.) To approach; to make up to.

Accost (v. t.) To speak to first; to address; to greet.

Accost (v. i.) To adjoin; to lie alongside.

Accost (n.) Address; greeting.

Accostable (a.) Approachable; affable.

Accosted (a.) Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side.

Accouchement (n.) Delivery in childbed

Accoucheur (n.) A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; an obstetrician.

Accoucheuse (n.) A midwife.

Account (n.) A reckoning; computation; calculation; enumeration; a record of some reckoning; as, the Julian account of time.

Account (n.) A registry of pecuniary transactions; a written or printed statement of business dealings or debts and credits, and also of other things subjected to a reckoning or review; as, to keep one's account at the bank.

Account (n.) A statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc., explanatory of some event; as, no satisfactory account has been given of these phenomena. Hence, the word is often used simply for reason, ground, consideration, motive, etc.; as, on no account, on every account, on all accounts.

Account (n.) A statement of facts or occurrences; recital of transactions; a relation or narrative; a report; a description; as, an account of a battle.

Account (n.) A statement and explanation or vindication of one's conduct with reference to judgment thereon.

Account (n.) An estimate or estimation; valuation; judgment.

Account (n.) Importance; worth; value; advantage; profit.

Accounted (imp. & p. p.) of Account

Accounting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Account

Account (v. t.) To reckon; to compute; to count.

Account (v. t.) To place to one's account; to put to the credit of; to assign; -- with to.

Account (v. t.) To value, estimate, or hold in opinion; to judge or consider; to deem.

Account (v. t.) To recount; to relate.

Account (v. i.) To render or receive an account or relation of particulars; as, an officer must account with or to the treasurer for money received.

Account (v. i.) To render an account; to answer in judgment; -- with for; as, we must account for the use of our opportunities.

Account (v. i.) To give a satisfactory reason; to tell the cause of; to explain; -- with for; as, idleness accounts for poverty.

Accountability (n.) The state of being accountable; liability to be called on to render an account; accountableness.

Accountable (a.) Liable to be called on to render an account; answerable; as, every man is accountable to God for his conduct.

Accountable (a.) Capable of being accounted for; explicable.

Accountable ness (n.) The quality or state of being accountable; accountability.

Accountably (adv.) In an accountable manner.

Accountancy (n.) The art or employment of an accountant.

Accountant (n.) One who renders account; one accountable.

Accountant (n.) A reckoner.

Accountant (n.) One who is skilled in, keeps, or adjusts, accounts; an officer in a public office, who has charge of the accounts.

Accountant (a.) Accountable.

Accountantship (n.) The office or employment of an accountant.

Account book () A book in which accounts are kept.

Accouple (v. t.) To join; to couple.

Accouplement (n.) The act of coupling, or the state of being coupled; union.

Accouplement (n.) That which couples, as a tie or brace.

Accourage (v. t.) To encourage.

Accourt (v. t.) To treat courteously; to court.

Accoutered (imp. & p. p.) of Accoutre

Accoutred () of Accoutre

Accoutering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accoutre

Accoutring () of Accoutre

Accouter (v. t.) Alt. of Accoutre

Accoutre (v. t.) To furnish with dress, or equipments, esp. those for military service; to equip; to attire; to array.

Accouterments (n. pl.) Alt. of Accoutrements

Accoutrements (n. pl.) Dress; trappings; equipment; specifically, the devices and equipments worn by soldiers.

Accoy (v. t.) To render quiet; to soothe.

Accoy (v. t.) To subdue; to tame; to daunt.

Accredited (imp. & p. p.) of Accredit

Accrediting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accredit

Accredit (v. t.) To put or bring into credit; to invest with credit or authority; to sanction.

Accredit (v. t.) To send with letters credential, as an ambassador, envoy, or diplomatic agent; to authorize, as a messenger or delegate.

Accredit (v. t.) To believe; to credit; to put trust in.

Accredit (v. t.) To credit; to vouch for or consider (some one) as doing something, or (something) as belonging to some one.

Accreditation (n.) The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation.

Accrementitial (a.) Pertaining to accremention.

Accrementition (n.) The process of generation by development of blastema, or fission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect like the individual from which it proceeds.

Accresce (v. i.) To accrue.

Accresce (v. i.) To increase; to grow.

Accrescence (n.) Continuous growth; an accretion.

Accrescent (a.) Growing; increasing.

Accrescent (a.) Growing larger after flowering.

Accrete (v. i.) To grow together.

Accrete (v. i.) To adhere; to grow (to); to be added; -- with to.

Accrete (v. t.) To make adhere; to add.

Accrete (a.) Characterized by accretion; made up; as, accrete matter.

Accrete (a.) Grown together.

Accretion (n.) The act of increasing by natural growth; esp. the increase of organic bodies by the internal accession of parts; organic growth.

Accretion (n.) The act of increasing, or the matter added, by an accession of parts externally; an extraneous addition; as, an accretion of earth.

Accretion (n.) Concretion; coherence of separate particles; as, the accretion of particles so as to form a solid mass.

Accretion (n.) A growing together of parts naturally separate, as of the fingers toes.

Accretion (n.) The adhering of property to something else, by which the owner of one thing becomes possessed of a right to another; generally, gain of land by the washing up of sand or sail from the sea or a river, or by a gradual recession of the water from the usual watermark.

Accretion (n.) Gain to an heir or legatee, failure of a coheir to the same succession, or a co-legatee of the same thing, to take his share.

Accretive (a.) Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth.

Accriminate (v. t.) To accuse of a crime.

Accroach (v. t.) To hook, or draw to one's self as with a hook.

Accroach (v. t.) To usurp, as jurisdiction or royal prerogatives.

Accroachment (n.) An encroachment; usurpation.

Accrual (n.) Accrument.

Accrued (imp. & p. p.) of Accrue

Accruing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accrue

Accrue (n.) To increase; to augment.

Accrue (n.) To come to by way of increase; to arise or spring as a growth or result; to be added as increase, profit, or damage, especially as the produce of money lent.

Accrue (n.) Something that accrues; advantage accruing.

Accruer (n.) The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer.

Accrument (n.) The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase.

Accubation (n.) The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by the ancients at meals.

Accumb (v. i.) To recline, as at table.

Accumbency (n.) The state of being accumbent or reclining.

Accumbent (a.) Leaning or reclining, as the ancients did at their meals.

Accumbent (a.) Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against another leaf.

Accumbent (n.) One who reclines at table.

Accumber (v. t.) To encumber.

Accumulated (imp. & p. p.) of Accumulate

Accumulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accumulate

Accumulate (v. t.) To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together; to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.

Accumulate (v. i.) To grow or increase in quantity or number; to increase greatly.

Accumulate (a.) Collected; accumulated.

Accumulation (n.) The act of accumulating, the state of being accumulated, or that which is accumulated; as, an accumulation of earth, of sand, of evils, of wealth, of honors.

Accumulation (n.) The concurrence of several titles to the same proof.

Accumulative (a.) Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass; cumulative; additional.

Accumulator (n.) One who, or that which, accumulates, collects, or amasses.

Accumulator (n.) An apparatus by means of which energy or power can be stored, such as the cylinder or tank for storing water for hydraulic elevators, the secondary or storage battery used for accumulating the energy of electrical charges, etc.

Accumulator (n.) A system of elastic springs for relieving the strain upon a rope, as in deep-sea dredging.

Accuracy (n.) The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, this exemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or to a rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as, the value of testimony depends on its accuracy.

Accurate (a.) In exact or careful conformity to truth, or to some standard of requirement, the result of care or pains; free from failure, error, or defect; exact; as, an accurate calculator; an accurate measure; accurate expression, knowledge, etc.

Accurate (a.) Precisely fixed; executed with care; careful.

Accurately (adv.) In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error or defect.

Accurateness (n.) The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness; nicety; precision.

Accurse (v. t.) To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; to curse; to execrate; to anathematize.

Accursed (p. p. & a.) Alt. of Accurst

Accurst (p. p. & a.) Doomed to destruction or misery; cursed; hence, bad enough to be under the curse; execrable; detestable; exceedingly hateful; -- as, an accursed deed.

Accusable (a.) Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime or fault; blamable; -- with of.

Accusal (n.) Accusation.

Accusant (n.) An accuser.

Accusation (n.) The act of accusing or charging with a crime or with a lighter offense.

Accusation (n.) That of which one is accused; the charge of an offense or crime, or the declaration containing the charge.

Accusatival (a.) Pertaining to the accusative case.

Accusative (a.) Producing accusations; accusatory.

Accusative (a.) Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greek nouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action or influence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object of motion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds to the objective case in English.

Accusative (n.) The accusative case.

Accusatively (adv.) In an accusative manner.

Accusatively (adv.) In relation to the accusative case in grammar.

Accusatorial (a.) Accusatory.

Accusatorially (adv.) By way accusation.

Accusatory (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatory libel.

Accuse (n.) Accusation.

Accused (imp. & p. p.) of Accuse

Accusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accuse

Accuse (v. t.) To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense

Accuse (v. t.) to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; -- with of; as, to accuse one of a high crime or misdemeanor.

Accuse (v. t.) To charge with a fault; to blame; to censure.

Accuse (v. t.) To betray; to show. [L.]

Accused (a.) Charged with offense; as, an accused person.

Accusement (n.) Accusation.

Accuser (n.) One who accuses; one who brings a charge of crime or fault.

Accusingly (adv.) In an accusing manner.

Accustomed (imp. & p. p.) of Accustom

Accustoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accustom

Accustom (v. t.) To make familiar by use; to habituate, familiarize, or inure; -- with to.

Accustom (v. i.) To be wont.

Accustom (v. i.) To cohabit.

Accustom (n.) Custom.

Accustomable (a.) Habitual; customary; wonted.

Accustomably (adv.) According to custom; ordinarily; customarily.

Accustomance (n.) Custom; habitual use.

Accustomarily (adv.) Customarily.

Accustomary (a.) Usual; customary.

Accustomed (a.) Familiar through use; usual; customary.

Accustomed (a.) Frequented by customers.

Accustomedness (n.) Habituation.

Aces (pl. ) of Ace

Ace (n.) A unit; a single point or spot on a card or die; the card or die so marked; as, the ace of diamonds.

Ace (n.) Hence: A very small quantity or degree; a particle; an atom; a jot.

Aceldama (n.) The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem, purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master, and therefore called the field of blood. Fig.: A field of bloodshed.

Acentric (a.) Not centered; without a center.

Acephal (n.) One of the Acephala.

Acephala (n. pl.) That division of the Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells, like the clams and oysters; -- so called because they have no evident head. Formerly the group included the Tunicata, Brachiopoda, and sometimes the Bryozoa. See Mollusca.

Acephalan (n.) Same as Acephal.

Acephalan (a.) Belonging to the Acephala.

Acephali (n. pl.) A fabulous people reported by ancient writers to have heads.

Acephali (n. pl.) A Christian sect without a leader.

Acephali (n. pl.) Bishops and certain clergymen not under regular diocesan control.

Acephali (n. pl.) A class of levelers in the time of K. Henry I.

Acephalist (n.) One who acknowledges no head or superior.

Acephalocyst (n.) A larval entozoon in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle, or hydatid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of man and the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head or visible organs on the vesicle. These cysts are the immature stages of certain tapeworms. Also applied to similar cysts of different origin.

Acephalocystic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the acephalocysts.

Acephalous (a.) Headless.

Acephalous (a.) Without a distinct head; -- a term applied to bivalve mollusks.

Acephalous (a.) Having the style spring from the base, instead of from the apex, as is the case in certain ovaries.

Acephalous (a.) Without a leader or chief.

Acephalous (a.) Wanting the beginning.

Acephalous (a.) Deficient and the beginning, as a line of poetry.

Acerate (n.) A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base.

Acerate (a.) Acerose; needle-shaped.

Acerb (a.) Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharp and harsh.

Acerbate (v. t.) To sour; to imbitter; to irritate.

Acerbic (a.) Sour or severe.

Acerbitude (n.) Sourness and harshness.

Acerbity (n.) Sourness of taste, with bitterness and astringency, like that of unripe fruit.

Acerbity (n.) Harshness, bitterness, or severity; as, acerbity of temper, of language, of pain.

Aceric (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid.

Acerose (a.) Having the nature of chaff; chaffy.

Acerose (a.) Needle-shaped, having a sharp, rigid point, as the leaf of the pine.

Acerous (a.) Same as Acerose.

Acerous (a.) Destitute of tentacles, as certain mollusks.

Acerous (a.) Without antennae, as some insects.

Acerval (a.) Pertaining to a heap.

Acervate (v. t.) To heap up.

Acervate (a.) Heaped, or growing in heaps, or closely compacted clusters.

Acervation (n.) A heaping up; accumulation.

Acervative (a.) Heaped up; tending to heap up.

Acervose (a.) Full of heaps.

Acervuline (a.) Resembling little heaps.

Acescence (n.) Alt. of Acescency

Acescency (n.) The quality of being acescent; the process of acetous fermentation; a moderate degree of sourness.

Acescent (a.) Turning sour; readily becoming tart or acid; slightly sour.

Acescent (n.) A substance liable to become sour.

Acetable (n.) An acetabulum; or about one eighth of a pint.

Acetabular (a.) Cup-shaped; saucer-shaped; acetabuliform.

Acetabulifera (n. pl.) The division of Cephalopoda in which the arms are furnished with cup-shaped suckers, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopus; the Dibranchiata. See Cephalopoda.

Acetabuliferous (a.) Furnished with fleshy cups for adhering to bodies, as cuttlefish, etc.

Acetabuliform (a.) Shaped like a shallow cup; saucer-shaped; as, an acetabuliform calyx.

Acetabulum (n.) A vinegar cup; socket of the hip bone; a measure of about one eighth of a pint, etc.

Acetabulum (n.) The bony cup which receives the head of the thigh bone.

Acetabulum (n.) The cavity in which the leg of an insect is inserted at its articulation with the body.

Acetabulum (n.) A sucker of the sepia or cuttlefish and related animals.

Acetabulum (n.) The large posterior sucker of the leeches.

Acetabulum (n.) One of the lobes of the placenta in ruminating animals.

Acetal (n.) A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation of alcohol under the influence of platinum black.

Acetaldehyde (n.) Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde.

Acetamide (n.) A white crystalline solid, from ammonia by replacement of an equivalent of hydrogen by acetyl.

Acetanilide (n.) A compound of aniline with acetyl, used to allay fever or pain; -- called also antifebrine.

Acetarious (a.) Used in salads; as, acetarious plants.

Acetary (n.) An acid pulp in certain fruits, as the pear.

Acetate (n.) A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base or positive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash.

Acetated (a.) Combined with acetic acid.

Acetic (a.) Of a pertaining to vinegar; producing vinegar; producing vinegar; as, acetic fermentation.

Acetic (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or derived from, acetyl, as acetic ether, acetic acid. The latter is the acid to which the sour taste of vinegar is due.

Acetification (n.) The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting, or of becoming converted, into vinegar.

Acetifier (n.) An apparatus for hastening acetification.

Acetified (imp. & p. p.) of Acetify

Acetifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acetify

Acetify (v. t.) To convert into acid or vinegar.

Acetify (v. i.) To turn acid.

Acetimeter (n.) An instrument for estimating the amount of acetic acid in vinegar or in any liquid containing acetic acid.

Acetimetry (n.) The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, or the proportion of acetic acid contained in it.

Acetin (n.) A combination of acetic acid with glycerin.

Acetize (v. i.) To acetify.

Acetometer (n.) Same as Acetimeter.

Acetone (n.) A volatile liquid consisting of three parts of carbon, six of hydrogen, and one of oxygen; pyroacetic spirit, -- obtained by the distillation of certain acetates, or by the destructive distillation of citric acid, starch, sugar, or gum, with quicklime.

Acetonic (a.) Of or pertaining to acetone; as, acetonic bodies.

Acetose (a.) Sour like vinegar; acetous.

Acetosity (n.) The quality of being acetous; sourness.

Acetous (a.) Having a sour taste; sour; acid.

Acetous (a.) Causing, or connected with, acetification; as, acetous fermentation.

Acetyl (n.) A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts of carbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide is acetic acid.

Acetylene (n.) A gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion of two atoms of the former to two of the latter. It is a colorless gas, with a peculiar, unpleasant odor, and is produced for use as an illuminating gas in a number of ways, but chiefly by the action of water on calcium carbide. Its light is very brilliant.

Ach (n.) Alt. of Ache

Ache (n.) A name given to several species of plants; as, smallage, wild celery, parsley.

Achaean (a.) Alt. of Achaian

Achaian (a.) Of or pertaining to Achaia in Greece; also, Grecian.

Achaian (n.) A native of Achaia; a Greek.

Acharnement (n.) Savage fierceness; ferocity.

Achate (n.) An agate.

Achate (n.) Purchase; bargaining.

Achate (n.) Provisions. Same as Cates.

Achatina (n.) A genus of land snails, often large, common in the warm parts of America and Africa.

Achatour (n.) Purveyor; acater.

Ache (v. i.) Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, or spasmodic pain. Such an ache in my bones.

Ached (imp. & p. p.) of Ache

Aching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ache

Ache (v. i.) To suffer pain; to have, or be in, pain, or in continued pain; to be distressed.

Achean (a & n.) See Achaean, Achaian.

Achene (n.) Alt. of Achenium

Achenium (n.) A small, dry, indehiscent fruit, containing a single seed, as in the buttercup; -- called a naked seed by the earlier botanists.

Achenial (a.) Pertaining to an achene.

Acheron (n.) A river in the Nether World or infernal regions; also, the infernal regions themselves. By some of the English poets it was supposed to be a flaming lake or gulf.

Acherontic (a.) Of or pertaining to Acheron; infernal; hence, dismal, gloomy; moribund.

Achievable (a.) Capable of being achieved.

Achievance (n.) Achievement.

Achieved (imp. & p. p.) of Achieve

Achieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Achieve

Achieve (v. t.) To carry on to a final close; to bring out into a perfected state; to accomplish; to perform; -- as, to achieve a feat, an exploit, an enterprise.

Achieve (v. t.) To obtain, or gain, as the result of exertion; to succeed in gaining; to win.

Achieve (v. t.) To finish; to kill.

Achievement (n.) The act of achieving or performing; an obtaining by exertion; successful performance; accomplishment; as, the achievement of his object.

Achievement (n.) A great or heroic deed; something accomplished by valor, boldness, or praiseworthy exertion; a feat.

Achievement (n.) An escutcheon or ensign armorial; now generally applied to the funeral shield commonly called hatchment.

Achiever (n.) One who achieves; a winner.

Achillean (a.) Resembling Achilles, the hero of the Iliad; invincible.

Achilles' tendon (n.) The strong tendon formed of the united tendons of the large muscles in the calf of the leg, an inserted into the bone of the heel; -- so called from the mythological account of Achilles being held by the heel when dipped in the River Styx.

Achilous (a.) Without a lip.

Aching (a.) That aches; continuously painful. See Ache.

Achiote (n.) Seeds of the annotto tree; also, the coloring matter, annotto.

Achlamydate (a.) Not possessing a mantle; -- said of certain gastropods.

Achlamydeous (a.) Naked; having no floral envelope, neither calyx nor corolla.

Acholia (n.) Deficiency or want of bile.

Acholous (a.) Lacking bile.

Achromatic (a.) Free from color; transmitting light without decomposing it into its primary colors.

Achromatic (a.) Uncolored; not absorbing color from a fluid; -- said of tissue.

Achromatically (adv.) In an achromatic manner.

Achromaticity (n.) Achromatism.

Achromatin (n.) Tissue which is not stained by fluid dyes.

Achromatism (n.) The state or quality of being achromatic; as, the achromatism of a lens; achromaticity.

Achromatization (n.) The act or process of achromatizing.

Achromatized (imp. & p. p.) of Achromatize

Achromatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Achromatize

Achromatize (v. t.) To deprive of color; to make achromatic.

Achromatopsy (n.) Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.

Achronic (a.) See Acronyc.

Achroodextrin (n.) Dextrin not colorable by iodine. See Dextrin.

Achroous (a.) Colorless; achromatic.

Achylous (a.) Without chyle.

Achymous (a.) Without chyme.

Aciculae (pl. ) of Acicula

Acicula (n.) One of the needlelike or bristlelike spines or prickles of some animals and plants; also, a needlelike crystal.

Acicular (a.) Needle-shaped; slender like a needle or bristle, as some leaves or crystals; also, having sharp points like needless.

Aciculate (a.) Alt. of Aciculated

Aciculated (a.) Furnished with aciculae.

Aciculated (a.) Acicular.

Aciculated (a.) Marked with fine irregular streaks as if scratched by a needle.

Aciculiform (a.) Needle-shaped; acicular.

Aciculite (n.) Needle ore.

Acid (a.) Sour, sharp, or biting to the taste; tart; having the taste of vinegar: as, acid fruits or liquors. Also fig.: Sour-tempered.

Acid (a.) Of or pertaining to an acid; as, acid reaction.

Acid (n.) A sour substance.

Acid (n.) One of a class of compounds, generally but not always distinguished by their sour taste, solubility in water, and reddening of vegetable blue or violet colors. They are also characterized by the power of destroying the distinctive properties of alkalies or bases, combining with them to form salts, at the same time losing their own peculiar properties. They all contain hydrogen, united with a more negative element or radical, either alone, or more generally with oxygen, and take their names from this negative element or radical. Those which contain no oxygen are sometimes called hydracids in distinction from the others which are called oxygen acids or oxacids.

Acidic (a.) Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic.

Acidiferous (a.) Containing or yielding an acid.

Acidifiable (a.) Capable of being acidified, or converted into an acid.

Acidific (a.) Producing acidity; converting into an acid.

Acidification (n.) The act or process of acidifying, or changing into an acid.

Acidifier (n.) A simple or compound principle, whose presence is necessary to produce acidity, as oxygen, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc.

Acidified (imp. & p. p.) of Acidify

Acidifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acidify

Acidify (v. t.) To make acid; to convert into an acid; as, to acidify sugar.

Acidify (v. t.) To sour; to imbitter.

Acidimeter (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the strength of acids.

Acidimetry (n.) The measurement of the strength of acids, especially by a chemical process based on the law of chemical combinations, or the fact that, to produce a complete reaction, a certain definite weight of reagent is required.

Acidity (n.) The quality of being sour; sourness; tartness; sharpness to the taste; as, the acidity of lemon juice.

Acidly (adv.) Sourly; tartly.

Acidness (n.) Acidity; sourness.

Acidulated (imp. & p. p.) of Acidulate

Acidulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acidulate

Acidulate (v. t.) To make sour or acid in a moderate degree; to sour somewhat.

Acidulent (a.) Having an acid quality; sour; acidulous.

Acidulous (a.) Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish; as, an acidulous tincture.

Acierage (n.) The process of coating the surface of a metal plate (as a stereotype plate) with steellike iron by means of voltaic electricity; steeling.

Aciform (a.) Shaped like a needle.

Acinaceous (a.) Containing seeds or stones of grapes, or grains like them.

Acinaces (n.) A short sword or saber.

Acinaciform (a.) Scimeter-shaped; as, an acinaciform leaf.

Acinesia (n.) Same as Akinesia.

Acinetae (n. pl.) A group of suctorial Infusoria, which in the adult stage are stationary. See Suctoria.

Acinetiform (a.) Resembling the Acinetae.

Aciniform (a.) Having the form of a cluster of grapes; clustered like grapes.

Aciniform (a.) Full of small kernels like a grape.

Acinose (a.) Alt. of Acinous

Acinous (a.) Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as, acinose or acinous glands.

Acini (pl. ) of Acinus

Acinus (n.) One of the small grains or drupelets which make up some kinds of fruit, as the blackberry, raspberry, etc.

Acinus (n.) A grapestone.

Acinus (n.) One of the granular masses which constitute a racemose or compound gland, as the pancreas; also, one of the saccular recesses in the lobules of a racemose gland.

Acipenser (n.) A genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having the body armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of the head. See Sturgeon.

Aciurgy (n.) Operative surgery.

Acknow (v. t.) To recognize.

Acknow (v. t.) To acknowledge; to confess.

Acknowledged (imp. & p. p.) of Acknowledge

Acknowledging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acknowledge

Acknowledge (v. t.) To of or admit the knowledge of; to recognize as a fact or truth; to declare one's belief in; as, to acknowledge the being of a God.

Acknowledge (v. t.) To own or recognize in a particular character or relationship; to admit the claims or authority of; to give recognition to.

Acknowledge (v. t.) To own with gratitude or as a benefit or an obligation; as, to acknowledge a favor, the receipt of a letter.

Acknowledge (v. t.) To own as genuine; to assent to, as a legal instrument, to give it validity; to avow or admit in legal form; as, to acknowledgea deed.

Acknowledgedly (adv.) Confessedly.

Acknowledger (n.) One who acknowledges.

Acknowledgment (n.) The act of acknowledging; admission; avowal; owning; confession.

Acknowledgment (n.) The act of owning or recognized in a particular character or relationship; recognition as regards the existence, authority, truth, or genuineness.

Acknowledgment (n.) The owning of a benefit received; courteous recognition; expression of thanks.

Acknowledgment (n.) Something given or done in return for a favor, message, etc.

Acknowledgment (n.) A declaration or avowal of one's own act, to give it legal validity; as, the acknowledgment of a deed before a proper officer. Also, the certificate of the officer attesting such declaration.

Aclinic (a.) Without inclination or dipping; -- said the magnetic needle balances itself horizontally, having no dip. The aclinic line is also termed the magnetic equator.

Acme (n.) The top or highest point; the culmination.

Acme (n.) The crisis or height of a disease.

Acme (n.) Mature age; full bloom of life.

Acne (n.) A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in the sebaceous glands.

Acnodal (a.) Pertaining to acnodes.

Acnode (n.) An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coordinates satisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered as belonging to the curve.

Acock (adv.) In a cocked or turned up fashion.

Acockbill (adv.) Hanging at the cathead, ready to let go, as an anchor.

Acockbill (adv.) Topped up; having one yardarm higher than the other.

Acold (a.) Cold.

Acologic (a.) Pertaining to acology.

Acology (n.) Materia medica; the science of remedies.

Acolothist (n.) See Acolythist.

Acolyctine (n.) An organic base, in the form of a white powder, obtained from Aconitum lycoctonum.

Acolyte (n.) One who has received the highest of the four minor orders in the Catholic church, being ordained to carry the wine and water and the lights at the Mass.

Acolyte (n.) One who attends; an assistant.

Acolyth (n.) Same as Acolyte.

Acolythist (n.) An acolyte.

Aconddylose (a.) Alt. of Acondylous

Acondylous (a.) Being without joints; jointless.

Aconital (a.) Of the nature of aconite.

Aconite (n.) The herb wolfsbane, or monkshood; -- applied to any plant of the genus Aconitum (tribe Hellebore), all the species of which are poisonous.

Aconite (n.) An extract or tincture obtained from Aconitum napellus, used as a poison and medicinally.

Aconitia (n.) Same as Aconitine.

Aconitic (a.) Of or pertaining to aconite.

Aconitine (n.) An intensely poisonous alkaloid, extracted from aconite.

Aconitum (n.) The poisonous herb aconite; also, an extract from it.

Acontia (n. pl.) Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells (cnidae), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniae when irritated.

Acontias (n.) Anciently, a snake, called dart snake; now, one of a genus of reptiles closely allied to the lizards.

Acopic (a.) Relieving weariness; restorative.

Acorn (n.) The fruit of the oak, being an oval nut growing in a woody cup or cupule.

Acorn (n.) A cone-shaped piece of wood on the point of the spindle above the vane, on the mast-head.

Acorn (n.) See Acorn-shell.

Acorn cup () The involucre or cup in which the acorn is fixed.

Acorned (a.) Furnished or loaded with acorns.

Acorned (a.) Fed or filled with acorns.

Acorn-shell (n.) One of the sessile cirripeds; a barnacle of the genus Balanus. See Barnacle.

Acosmism (n.) A denial of the existence of the universe as distinct from God.

Acosmist (n.) One who denies the existence of the universe, or of a universe as distinct from God.

Acotyledon (n.) A plant which has no cotyledons, as the dodder and all flowerless plants.

Acotyledonous (a.) Having no seed lobes, as the dodder; also applied to plants which have no true seeds, as ferns, mosses, etc.

Acouchy (n.) A small species of agouti (Dasyprocta acouchy).

Acoumeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the acuteness of the sense of hearing.

Acoumetry (n.) The measuring of the power or extent of hearing.

Acoustic (a.) Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, or the science of sounds; auditory.

Acoustic (n.) A medicine or agent to assist hearing.

Acoustical (a.) Of or pertaining to acoustics.

Acoustically (adv.) In relation to sound or to hearing.

Acoustician (n.) One versed in acoustics.

Acoustics (n.) The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, and laws.

Acquaint (v. t.) Acquainted.

Acquainted (imp. & p. p.) of Acquaint

Acquainting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acquaint

Acquaint (v. t.) To furnish or give experimental knowledge of; to make (one) to know; to make familiar; -- followed by with.

Acquaint (v. t.) To communicate notice to; to inform; to make cognizant; -- followed by with (formerly, also, by of), or by that, introducing the intelligence; as, to acquaint a friend with the particulars of an act.

Acquaint (v. t.) To familiarize; to accustom.

Acquaintable (a.) Easy to be acquainted with; affable.

Acquaintance (n.) A state of being acquainted, or of having intimate, or more than slight or superficial, knowledge; personal knowledge gained by intercourse short of that of friendship or intimacy; as, I know the man; but have no acquaintance with him.

Acquaintance (n.) A person or persons with whom one is acquainted.

Acquaintanceship (n.) A state of being acquainted; acquaintance.

Acquaintant (n.) An acquaintance.

Acquainted (a.) Personally known; familiar. See To be acquainted with, under Acquaint, v. t.

Acquaintedness (n.) State of being acquainted; degree of acquaintance.

Acquest (n.) Acquisition; the thing gained.

Acquest (n.) Property acquired by purchase, gift, or otherwise than by inheritance.

Acquiesced (imp. & p. p.) of Acquiesce

Acquiescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acquiesce

Acquiesce (v. i.) To rest satisfied, or apparently satisfied, or to rest without opposition and discontent (usually implying previous opposition or discontent); to accept or consent by silence or by omitting to object; -- followed by in, formerly also by with and to.

Acquiesce (v. i.) To concur upon conviction; as, to acquiesce in an opinion; to assent to; usually, to concur, not heartily but so far as to forbear opposition.

Acquiescence (n.) A silent or passive assent or submission, or a submission with apparent content; -- distinguished from avowed consent on the one hand, and on the other, from opposition or open discontent; quiet satisfaction.

Acquiescence (n.) Submission to an injury by the party injured.

Acquiescence (n.) Tacit concurrence in the action of another.

Acquiescency (n.) The quality of being acquiescent; acquiescence.

Acquiescent (a.) Resting satisfied or submissive; disposed tacitly to submit; assentive; as, an acquiescent policy.

Acquiescently (adv.) In an acquiescent manner.

Acquiet (v. t.) To quiet.

Acquirability (n.) The quality of being acquirable; attainableness.

Acquirable (a.) Capable of being acquired.

Acquired (imp. & p. p.) of Acquire

Acquiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acquire

Acquire (v. t.) To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own; as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits.

Acquirement (n.) The act of acquiring, or that which is acquired; attainment.

Acquirer (n.) A person who acquires.

Acquiry (n.) Acquirement.

Acquisite (a.) Acquired.

Acquisition (n.) The act or process of acquiring.

Acquisition (n.) The thing acquired or gained; an acquirement; a gain; as, learning is an acquisition.

Acquisitive (a.) Acquired.

Acquisitive (a.) Able or disposed to make acquisitions; acquiring; as, an acquisitive person or disposition.

Acquisitively (adv.) In the way of acquisition.

Acquisitiveness (n.) The quality of being acquisitive; propensity to acquire property; desire of possession.

Acquisitiveness (n.) The faculty to which the phrenologists attribute the desire of acquiring and possessing.

Acquisitor (n.) One who acquires.

Acquist (n.) Acquisition; gain.

Acquit (p. p.) Acquitted; set free; rid of.

Acquitted (imp. & p. p.) of Acquit

Acquitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acquit

Acquit (v. t.) To discharge, as a claim or debt; to clear off; to pay off; to requite.

Acquit (v. t.) To pay for; to atone for.

Acquit (v. t.) To set free, release or discharge from an obligation, duty, liability, burden, or from an accusation or charge; -- now followed by of before the charge, formerly by from; as, the jury acquitted the prisoner; we acquit a man of evil intentions.

Acquit (v. t.) To clear one's self.

Acquit (v. t.) To bear or conduct one's self; to perform one's part; as, the soldier acquitted himself well in battle; the orator acquitted himself very poorly.

Acquitment (n.) Acquittal.

Acquittal (n.) The act of acquitting; discharge from debt or obligation; acquittance.

Acquittal (n.) A setting free, or deliverance from the charge of an offense, by verdict of a jury or sentence of a court.

Acquittance (n.) The clearing off of debt or obligation; a release or discharge from debt or other liability.

Acquittance (n.) A writing which is evidence of a discharge; a receipt in full, which bars a further demand.

Acquittance (v. t.) To acquit.

Acquitter (n.) One who acquits or releases.

Acrania (n.) Partial or total absence of the skull.

Acrania (n.) The lowest group of Vertebrata, including the amphioxus, in which no skull exists.

Acranial (a.) Wanting a skull.

Acrase (v. t.) Alt. of Acraze

Acraze (v. t.) To craze.

Acraze (v. t.) To impair; to destroy.

Acrasia (n.) Alt. of Acrasy

Acrasy (n.) Excess; intemperance.

Acraspeda (n. pl.) A group of acalephs, including most of the larger jellyfishes; the Discophora.

Acre (n.) Any field of arable or pasture land.

Acre (n.) A piece of land, containing 160 square rods, or 4,840 square yards, or 43,560 square feet. This is the English statute acre. That of the United States is the same. The Scotch acre was about 1.26 of the English, and the Irish 1.62 of the English.

Acreable (a.) Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce.

Acreage (n.) Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country.

Acred (a.) Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition; as, large-acred men.

Acrid (a.) Sharp and harsh, or bitter and not, to the taste; pungent; as, acrid salts.

Acrid (a.) Causing heat and irritation; corrosive; as, acrid secretions.

Acrid (a.) Caustic; bitter; bitterly irritating; as, acrid temper, mind, writing.

Acridity (n.) Alt. of Acridness

Acridness (n.) The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness; acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.

Acridly (adv.) In an acid manner.

Acrimonious (a.) Acrid; corrosive; as, acrimonious gall.

Acrimonious (a.) Caustic; bitter-tempered' sarcastic; as, acrimonious dispute, language, temper.

Acrimoniously (adv.) In an acrimonious manner.

Acrimoniousness (n.) The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony.

Acrimonies (pl. ) of Acrimony

Acrimony (n.) A quality of bodies which corrodes or destroys others; also, a harsh or biting sharpness; as, the acrimony of the juices of certain plants.

Acrimony (n.) Sharpness or severity, as of language or temper; irritating bitterness of disposition or manners.

Acrisia (n.) Alt. of Acrisy

Acrisy (n.) Inability to judge.

Acrisy (n.) Undecided character of a disease.

Acrita (n. pl.) The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system has been observed.

Acritan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Acrita.

Acritan (n.) An individual of the Acrita.

Acrite (a.) Acritan.

Acritical (a.) Having no crisis; giving no indications of a crisis; as, acritical symptoms, an acritical abscess.

Acritochromacy (n.) Color blindness; achromatopsy.

Acritude (n.) Acridity; pungency joined with heat.

Acrity (n.) Sharpness; keenness.

Acroamatic (a.) Alt. of Acroamatical

Acroamatical (a.) Communicated orally; oral; -- applied to the esoteric teachings of Aristotle, those intended for his genuine disciples, in distinction from his exoteric doctrines, which were adapted to outsiders or the public generally. Hence: Abstruse; profound.

Acroatic (a.) Same as Acroamatic.

Acrobat (n.) One who practices rope dancing, high vaulting, or other daring gymnastic feats.

Acrobatic (a.) Pertaining to an acrobat.

Acrobatism (n.) Feats of the acrobat; daring gymnastic feats; high vaulting.

Acrocarpous (a.) Having a terminal fructification; having the fruit at the end of the stalk.

Acrocarpous (a.) Having the fruit stalks at the end of a leafy stem, as in certain mosses.

Acrocephalic (a.) Characterized by a high skull.

Acrocephaly (n.) Loftiness of skull.

Acroceraunian (a.) Of or pertaining to the high mountain range of thunder-smitten peaks (now Kimara), between Epirus and Macedonia.

Acrodactylum (n.) The upper surface of the toes, individually.

Acrodont (n.) One of a group of lizards having the teeth immovably united to the top of the alveolar ridge.

Acrodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the acrodonts.

Acrogen (n.) A plant of the highest class of cryptogams, including the ferns, etc. See Cryptogamia.

Acrogenous (a.) Increasing by growth from the extremity; as, an acrogenous plant.

Acrolein (n.) A limpid, colorless, highly volatile liquid, obtained by the dehydration of glycerin, or the destructive distillation of neutral fats containing glycerin. Its vapors are intensely irritating.

Acrolith (n.) A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk being generally of wood.

Acrolithan (a.) Alt. of Acrolithic

Acrolithic (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an acrolith.

Acromegaly (n.) Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face.

Acromial (a.) Of or pertaining to the acromion.

Acromion (n.) The outer extremity of the shoulder blade.

Acromonogrammatic (a.) Having each verse begin with the same letter as that with which the preceding verse ends.

Acronyc (a.) Alt. of Acronychal

Acronychal (a.) Rising at sunset and setting at sunrise, as a star; -- opposed to cosmical.

Acronycally (adv.) In an acronycal manner as rising at the setting of the sun, and vice versa.

Acronyctous (a.) Acronycal.

Acrook (adv.) Crookedly.

Acropetal (a.) Developing from below towards the apex, or from the circumference towards the center; centripetal; -- said of certain inflorescence.

Acrophony (n.) The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.

Acropodium (n.) The entire upper surface of the foot.

Acropolis (n.) The upper part, or the citadel, of a Grecian city; especially, the citadel of Athens.

Acropolitan (a.) Pertaining to an acropolis.

Acrospire (n.) The sprout at the end of a seed when it begins to germinate; the plumule in germination; -- so called from its spiral form.

Acrospire (v. i.) To put forth the first sprout.

Acrospore (n.) A spore borne at the extremity of the cells of fructification in fungi.

Acrosporous (a.) Having acrospores.

Across (n.) From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river.

Across (adv.) From side to side; crosswise; as, with arms folded across.

Across (adv.) Obliquely; athwart; amiss; awry.

Acrostic (n.) A composition, usually in verse, in which the first or the last letters of the lines, or certain other letters, taken in order, form a name, word, phrase, or motto.

Acrostic (n.) A Hebrew poem in which the lines or stanzas begin with the letters of the alphabet in regular order (as Psalm cxix.). See Abecedarian.

Acrostic (n.) Alt. of Acrostical

Acrostical (n.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics.

Acrostically (adv.) After the manner of an acrostic.

Acrotarsium (n.) The instep or front of the tarsus.

Acroteleutic (n.) The end of a verse or psalm, or something added thereto, to be sung by the people, by way of a response.

Acroter (n.) Same as Acroterium.

Acroterial (a.) Pertaining to an acroterium; as, acroterial ornaments.

Acroteria (pl. ) of Acroterium

Acroterium (n.) One of the small pedestals, for statues or other ornaments, placed on the apex and at the basal angles of a pediment. Acroteria are also sometimes placed upon the gables in Gothic architecture.

Acroterium (n.) One of the pedestals, for vases or statues, forming a part roof balustrade.

Acrotic (a.) Pertaining to or affecting the surface.

Acrotism (n.) Lack or defect of pulsation.

Acrotomous (a.) Having a cleavage parallel with the base.

Acrylic (a.) Of or containing acryl, the hypothetical radical of which acrolein is the hydride; as, acrylic acid.

Act (n.) That which is done or doing; the exercise of power, or the effect, of which power exerted is the cause; a performance; a deed.

Act (n.) The result of public deliberation; the decision or determination of a legislative body, council, court of justice, etc.; a decree, edit, law, judgment, resolve, award; as, an act of Parliament, or of Congress.

Act (n.) A formal solemn writing, expressing that something has been done.

Act (n.) A performance of part of a play; one of the principal divisions of a play or dramatic work in which a certain definite part of the action is completed.

Act (n.) A thesis maintained in public, in some English universities, by a candidate for a degree, or to show the proficiency of a student.

Act (n.) A state of reality or real existence as opposed to a possibility or possible existence.

Act (n.) Process of doing; action. In act, in the very doing; on the point of (doing).

Acted (imp. & p. p.) of Act

Acting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Act

Act (v. t.) To move to action; to actuate; to animate.

Act (v. t.) To perform; to execute; to do.

Act (v. t.) To perform, as an actor; to represent dramatically on the stage.

Act (v. t.) To assume the office or character of; to play; to personate; as, to act the hero.

Act (v. t.) To feign or counterfeit; to simulate.

Act (v. i.) To exert power; to produce an effect; as, the stomach acts upon food.

Act (v. i.) To perform actions; to fulfill functions; to put forth energy; to move, as opposed to remaining at rest; to carry into effect a determination of the will.

Act (v. i.) To behave or conduct, as in morals, private duties, or public offices; to bear or deport one's self; as, we know not why he has acted so.

Act (v. i.) To perform on the stage; to represent a character.

Actable (a.) Capable of being acted.

Actinal (a.) Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains the mouth.

Actinaria (n. pl.) A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simple tentacles and do not form stony corals. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied to all the Anthozoa, expert the Alcyonaria, whether forming corals or not.

Acting (a.) Operating in any way.

Acting (a.) Doing duty for another; officiating; as, an acting superintendent.

Actiniae (pl. ) of Actinia

Actinias (pl. ) of Actinia

Actinia (n.) An animal of the class Anthozoa, and family Actinidae. From a resemblance to flowers in form and color, they are often called animal flowers and sea anemones. [See Polyp.].

Actinia (n.) A genus in the family Actinidae.

Actinic (a.) Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays.

Actiniform (a.) Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone.

Actinism (n.) The property of radiant energy (found chiefly in solar or electric light) by which chemical changes are produced, as in photography.

Actinium (n.) A supposed metal, said by Phipson to be contained in commercial zinc; -- so called because certain of its compounds are darkened by exposure to light.

Actino-chemistry (n.) Chemistry in its relations to actinism.

Actinograph (n.) An instrument for measuring and recording the variations in the actinic or chemical force of rays of light.

Actinoid (a.) Having the form of rays; radiated, as an actinia.

Actinolite (n.) A bright green variety of amphibole occurring usually in fibrous or columnar masses.

Actinolitic (a.) Of the nature of, or containing, actinolite.

Actinology (n.) The science which treats of rays of light, especially of the actinic or chemical rays.

Actinomere (n.) One of the radial segments composing the body of one of the Coelenterata.

Actinometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the direct heating power of the sun's rays.

Actinometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the actinic effect of rays of light.

Actinometric (a.) Pertaining to the measurement of the intensity of the solar rays, either (a) heating, or (b) actinic.

Actinometry (n.) The measurement of the force of solar radiation.

Actinometry (n.) The measurement of the chemical or actinic energy of light.

Actinophorous (a.) Having straight projecting spines.

Actinosome (n.) The entire body of a coelenterate.

Actinost (n.) One of the bones at the base of a paired fin of a fish.

Actinostome (n.) The mouth or anterior opening of a coelenterate animal.

Actinotrocha (n. pl.) A peculiar larval form of Phoronis, a genus of marine worms, having a circle of ciliated tentacles.

Actinozoa (n. pl.) A group of Coelenterata, comprising the Anthozoa and Ctenophora. The sea anemone, or actinia, is a familiar example.

Actinozoal (a.) Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.

Actinozoon (n.) One of the Actinozoa.

Actinula (n. pl.) A kind of embryo of certain hydroids (Tubularia), having a stellate form.

Action (n.) A process or condition of acting or moving, as opposed to rest; the doing of something; exertion of power or force, as when one body acts on another; the effect of power exerted on one body by another; agency; activity; operation; as, the action of heat; a man of action.

Action (n.) An act; a thing done; a deed; an enterprise. (pl.): Habitual deeds; hence, conduct; behavior; demeanor.

Action (n.) The event or connected series of events, either real or imaginary, forming the subject of a play, poem, or other composition; the unfolding of the drama of events.

Action (n.) Movement; as, the horse has a spirited action.

Action (n.) Effective motion; also, mechanism; as, the breech action of a gun.

Action (n.) Any one of the active processes going on in an organism; the performance of a function; as, the action of the heart, the muscles, or the gastric juice.

Action (n.) Gesticulation; the external deportment of the speaker, or the suiting of his attitude, voice, gestures, and countenance, to the subject, or to the feelings.

Action (n.) The attitude or position of the several parts of the body as expressive of the sentiment or passion depicted.

Action (n.) A suit or process, by which a demand is made of a right in a court of justice; in a broad sense, a judicial proceeding for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.

Action (n.) A right of action; as, the law gives an action for every claim.

Action (n.) A share in the capital stock of a joint-stock company, or in the public funds; hence, in the plural, equivalent to stocks.

Action (n.) An engagement between troops in war, whether on land or water; a battle; a fight; as, a general action, a partial action.

Action (n.) The mechanical contrivance by means of which the impulse of the player's finger is transmitted to the strings of a pianoforte or to the valve of an organ pipe.

Actionable (a.) That may be the subject of an action or suit at law; as, to call a man a thief is actionable.

Actionably (adv.) In an actionable manner.

Actionary (n.) Alt. of Actionist

Actionist (n.) A shareholder in joint-stock company.

Actionless (a.) Void of action.

Activate (v. t.) To make active.

Active (a.) Having the power or quality of acting; causing change; communicating action or motion; acting; -- opposed to passive, that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind.

Active (a.) Quick in physical movement; of an agile and vigorous body; nimble; as, an active child or animal.

Active (a.) In action; actually proceeding; working; in force; -- opposed to quiescent, dormant, or extinct; as, active laws; active hostilities; an active volcano.

Active (a.) Given to action; constantly engaged in action; energetic; diligent; busy; -- opposed to dull, sluggish, indolent, or inert; as, an active man of business; active mind; active zeal.

Active (a.) Requiring or implying action or exertion; -- opposed to sedentary or to tranquil; as, active employment or service; active scenes.

Active (a.) Given to action rather than contemplation; practical; operative; -- opposed to speculative or theoretical; as, an active rather than a speculative statesman.

Active (a.) Brisk; lively; as, an active demand for corn.

Active (a.) Implying or producing rapid action; as, an active disease; an active remedy.

Active (a.) Applied to a form of the verb; -- opposed to passive. See Active voice, under Voice.

Active (a.) Applied to verbs which assert that the subject acts upon or affects something else; transitive.

Active (a.) Applied to all verbs that express action as distinct from mere existence or state.

Actively (adv.) In an active manner; nimbly; briskly; energetically; also, by one's own action; voluntarily, not passively.

Actively (adv.) In an active signification; as, a word used actively.

Activeness (n.) The quality of being active; nimbleness; quickness of motion; activity.

Activities (pl. ) of Activity

Activity (n.) The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility; vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasing variety of human activities.

Actless (a.) Without action or spirit.

Acton (n.) A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacket plated with mail.

Actor (n.) One who acts, or takes part in any affair; a doer.

Actor (n.) A theatrical performer; a stageplayer.

Actor (n.) An advocate or proctor in civil courts or causes.

Actor (n.) One who institutes a suit; plaintiff or complainant.

Actress (n.) A female actor or doer.

Actress (n.) A female stageplayer; a woman who acts a part.

Actual (a.) Involving or comprising action; active.

Actual (a.) Existing in act or reality; really acted or acting; in fact; real; -- opposed to potential, possible, virtual, speculative, conceivable, theoretical, or nominal; as, the actual cost of goods; the actual case under discussion.

Actual (a.) In action at the time being; now exiting; present; as the actual situation of the country.

Actual (n.) Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated, receipts.

Actualist (n.) One who deals with or considers actually existing facts and conditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist.

Actualities (pl. ) of Actuality

Actuality (n.) The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God's nature.

Actualization (n.) A making actual or really existent.

Actualize (v. t.) To make actual; to realize in action.

Actually (adv.) Actively.

Actually (adv.) In act or in fact; really; in truth; positively.

Actualness (n.) Quality of being actual; actuality.

Actuarial (a.) Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of an annuity.

Actuaries (pl. ) of Actuary

Actuary (n.) A registrar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil law jurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registrar generally.

Actuary (n.) The computing official of an insurance company; one whose profession it is to calculate for insurance companies the risks and premiums for life, fire, and other insurances.

Actuated (imp. & p. p.) of Actuate

Actuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Actuate

Actuate (v. t.) To put into action or motion; to move or incite to action; to influence actively; to move as motives do; -- more commonly used of persons.

Actuate (v. t.) To carry out in practice; to perform.

Actuate (a.) Put in action; actuated.

Actuation (n.) A bringing into action; movement.

Actuator (n.) One who actuates, or puts into action.

Actuose (a.) Very active.

Actuosity (n.) Abundant activity.

Acture (n.) Action.

Acturience (n.) Tendency or impulse to act.

Acuate (v. t.) To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken.

Acuate (a.) Sharpened; sharp-pointed.

Acuation (n.) Act of sharpening.

Acuition (n.) The act of sharpening.

Acuity (n.) Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.

Aculeate (a.) Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.

Aculeate (a.) Having prickles, or sharp points; beset with prickles.

Aculeate (a.) Severe or stinging; incisive.

Aculeated (a.) Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate.

Aculeiform (a.) Like a prickle.

Aculeolate (a.) Having small prickles or sharp points.

Aculeous (a.) Aculeate.

Aculei (pl. ) of Aculeus

Aculeus (n.) A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses.

Aculeus (n.) A sting.

Acumen (n.) Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind; the faculty of nice discrimination.

Acuminate (a.) Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc.

Acuminate (v. t.) To render sharp or keen.

Acuminate (v. i.) To end in, or come to, a sharp point.

Acumination (n.) A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point.

Acuminose (a.) Terminating in a flat, narrow end.

Acuminous (a.) Characterized by acumen; keen.

Acupressure (n.) A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds or surgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle, the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneous surface.

Acupuncturation (n.) See Acupuncture.

Acupuncture (n.) Pricking with a needle; a needle prick.

Acupuncture (n.) The insertion of needles into the living tissues for remedial purposes.

Acupuncture (v. t.) To treat with acupuncture.

Acustumaunce (n.) See Accustomance.

Acutangular (a.) Acute-angled.

Acute (a.) Sharp at the end; ending in a sharp point; pointed; -- opposed to blunt or obtuse; as, an acute angle; an acute leaf.

Acute (a.) Having nice discernment; perceiving or using minute distinctions; penetrating; clever; shrewd; -- opposed to dull or stupid; as, an acute observer; acute remarks, or reasoning.

Acute (a.) Having nice or quick sensibility; susceptible to slight impressions; acting keenly on the senses; sharp; keen; intense; as, a man of acute eyesight, hearing, or feeling; acute pain or pleasure.

Acute (a.) High, or shrill, in respect to some other sound; -- opposed to grave or low; as, an acute tone or accent.

Acute (a.) Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and coming speedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease.

Acute (v. t.) To give an acute sound to; as, he acutes his rising inflection too much.

Acute-angled (a.) Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a triangle with every one of its angles less than a right angle.

Acutely (adv.) In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination.

Acuteness (n.) The quality of being acute or pointed; sharpness; as, the acuteness of an angle.

Acuteness (n.) The faculty of nice discernment or perception; acumen; keenness; sharpness; sensitiveness; -- applied to the senses, or the understanding. By acuteness of feeling, we perceive small objects or slight impressions: by acuteness of intellect, we discern nice distinctions.

Acuteness (n.) Shrillness; high pitch; -- said of sounds.

Acuteness (n.) Violence of a disease, which brings it speedily to a crisis.

Acutifoliate (a.) Having sharp-pointed leaves.

Acutilobate (a.) Having acute lobes, as some leaves.

Ad- () As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-, ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the word to which ad- is prefixed. It remains unchanged before vowels, and before d, h, j, m, v. Examples: adduce, adhere, adjacent, admit, advent, accord, affect, aggregate, allude, annex, appear, etc. It becomes ac- before qu, as in acquiesce.

Adact (v. t.) To compel; to drive.

Adactyl (a.) Alt. of Adactylous

Adactylous (a.) Without fingers or without toes.

Adactylous (a.) Without claws on the feet (of crustaceous animals).

Adage (n.) An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a proverb.

Adagial (a.) Pertaining to an adage; proverbial.

Adagio (a. & adv.) Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio, adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow.

Adagio (n.) A piece of music in adagio time; a slow movement; as, an adagio of Haydn.

Adam (n.) The name given in the Bible to the first man, the progenitor of the human race.

Adam (n.) Original sin; human frailty.

Adamant (n.) A stone imagined by some to be of impenetrable hardness; a name given to the diamond and other substances of extreme hardness; but in modern mineralogy it has no technical signification. It is now a rhetorical or poetical name for the embodiment of impenetrable hardness.

Adamant (n.) Lodestone; magnet.

Adamantean (a.) Of adamant; hard as adamant.

Adamantine (a.) Made of adamant, or having the qualities of adamant; incapable of being broken, dissolved, or penetrated; as, adamantine bonds or chains.

Adamantine (a.) Like the diamond in hardness or luster.

Adambulacral (a.) Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of the starfish.

Adamic (a.) Alt. of Adamical

Adamical (a.) Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him.

Adamite (n.) A descendant of Adam; a human being.

Adamite (n.) One of a sect of visionaries, who, professing to imitate the state of Adam, discarded the use of dress in their assemblies.

Adam's apple () See under Adam.

Adance (adv.) Dancing.

Adangle (adv.) Dangling.

Adansonia (n.) A genus of great trees related to the Bombax. There are two species, A. digitata, the baobab or monkey-bread of Africa and India, and A. Gregorii, the sour gourd or cream-of-tartar tree of Australia. Both have a trunk of moderate height, but of enormous diameter, and a wide-spreading head. The fruit is oblong, and filled with pleasantly acid pulp. The wood is very soft, and the bark is used by the natives for making ropes and cloth.

Adapt (a.) Fitted; suited.

Adapted (imp. & p. p.) of Adapt

Adapting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adapt

Adapt (v. t.) To make suitable; to fit, or suit; to adjust; to alter so as to fit for a new use; -- sometimes followed by to or for.

Adaptability (n.) Alt. of Adaptableness

Adaptableness (n.) The quality of being adaptable; suitableness.

Adaptable (a.) Capable of being adapted.

Adaptation (n.) The act or process of adapting, or fitting; or the state of being adapted or fitted; fitness.

Adaptation (n.) The result of adapting; an adapted form.

Adaptative (a.) Adaptive.

Adaptedness (n.) The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; special fitness.

Adapter (n.) One who adapts.

Adapter (n.) A connecting tube; an adopter.

Adaption (n.) Adaptation.

Adaptive (a.) Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized by adaptation; capable of adapting.

Adaptiveness (n.) The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt.

Adaptly (adv.) In a suitable manner.

Adaptness (n.) Adaptedness.

Adaptorial (a.) Adaptive.

Adar (n.) The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the sixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March.

Adarce (n.) A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in Galatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansing the skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy.

Adatis (n.) A fine cotton cloth of India.

Adaunt (v. t.) To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate.

Adaw (v. t.) To subdue; to daunt.

Adaw (v. t. & i.) To awaken; to arouse.

Adays (adv.) By day, or every day; in the daytime.

Ad captandum () A phrase used adjectively sometimes of meretricious attempts to catch or win popular favor.

Added (imp. & p. p.) of Add

Adding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Add

Add (v. t.) To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow (on).

Add (v. t.) To join or unite, as one thing to another, or as several particulars, so as to increase the number, augment the quantity, enlarge the magnitude, or so as to form into one aggregate. Hence: To sum up; to put together mentally; as, to add numbers; to add up a column.

Add (v. t.) To append, as a statement; to say further.

Add (v. i.) To make an addition. To add to, to augment; to increase; as, it adds to our anxiety.

Add (v. i.) To perform the arithmetical operation of addition; as, he adds rapidly.

Addable (a.) Addible.

Addax (n.) One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, / Oryx, nasomaculatus).

Addeem (v. t.) To award; to adjudge.

Addenda (pl. ) of Addendum

Addendum (n.) A thing to be added; an appendix or addition.

Adder (n.) One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding numbers.

Adder (n.) A serpent.

Adder (n.) A small venomous serpent of the genus Vipera. The common European adder is the Vipera (/ Pelias) berus. The puff adders of Africa are species of Clotho.

Adder (n.) In America, the term is commonly applied to several harmless snakes, as the milk adder, puffing adder, etc.

Adder (n.) Same as Sea Adder.

Adder fly/ () A dragon fly.

Adder's-tongue (n.) A genus of ferns (Ophioglossum), whose seeds are produced on a spike resembling a serpent's tongue.

Adder's-tongue (n.) The yellow dogtooth violet.

Adderwort (n.) The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta).

Addibility (n.) The quantity of being addible; capability of addition.

Addible (a.) Capable of being added.

Addice (n.) See Adze.

Addict (p. p.) Addicted; devoted.

Addicted (imp. & p. p.) of Addict

Addicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Addict

Addict (v. t.) To apply habitually; to devote; to habituate; -- with to.

Addict (v. t.) To adapt; to make suitable; to fit.

Addictedness (n.) The quality or state of being addicted; attachment.

Addiction (n.) The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination.

Addison's disease () A morbid condition causing a peculiar brownish discoloration of the skin, and thought, at one time, to be due to disease of the suprarenal capsules (two flat triangular bodies covering the upper part of the kidneys), but now known not to be dependent upon this causes exclusively. It is usually fatal.

Additament (n.) An addition, or a thing added.

Addition (n.) The act of adding two or more things together; -- opposed to subtraction or diminution.

Addition (n.) Anything added; increase; augmentation; as, a piazza is an addition to a building.

Addition (n.) That part of arithmetic which treats of adding numbers.

Addition (n.) A dot at the right side of a note as an indication that its sound is to be lengthened one half.

Addition (n.) A title annexed to a man's name, to identify him more precisely; as, John Doe, Esq.; Richard Roe, Gent.; Robert Dale, Mason; Thomas Way, of New York; a mark of distinction; a title.

Addition (n.) Something added to a coat of arms, as a mark of honor; -- opposed to abatement.

Additional (a.) Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition.

Additional (n.) Something added.

Additionally (adv.) By way of addition.

Additionary (a.) Additional.

Addititious (a.) Additive.

Additive (a.) Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive.

Additory (a.) Tending to add; making some addition.

Addle (n.) Liquid filth; mire.

Addle (n.) Lees; dregs.

Addle (a.) Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, as eggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled.

Addled (imp. & p. p.) of Addle

Addling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Addle

Addle (v. t. & i.) To make addle; to grow addle; to muddle; as, he addled his brain.

Addle (v. t. & i.) To earn by labor.

Addle (v. t. & i.) To thrive or grow; to ripen.

Addle-brain (n.) Alt. of Addle-pate

Addle-head (n.) Alt. of Addle-pate

Addle-pate (n.) A foolish or dull-witted fellow.

Addle-brained (a.) Alt. of Addle-pated

Addle-headed (a.) Alt. of Addle-pated

Addle-pated (a.) Dull-witted; stupid.

Addle-patedness (n.) Stupidity.

Addlings (n. pl.) Earnings.

Addoom (v. t.) To adjudge.

Addorsed (a.) Set or turned back to back.

Addressed (imp. & p. p.) of Address

Addressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Address

Address (v.) To aim; to direct.

Address (v.) To prepare or make ready.

Address (v.) Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or energies (to some object); to betake.

Address (v.) To clothe or array; to dress.

Address (v.) To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience).

Address (v.) To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, petition, etc., to speak to; to accost.

Address (v.) To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct and transmit; as, he addressed a letter.

Address (v.) To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo.

Address (v.) To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore.

Address (v. i.) To prepare one's self.

Address (v. i.) To direct speech.

Address (v. t.) Act of preparing one's self.

Address (v. t.) Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application.

Address (v. t.) A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal statement on some subject or special occasion; as, an address of thanks, an address to the voters.

Address (v. t.) Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and place of residence of the person addressed.

Address (v. t.) Manner of speaking to another; delivery; as, a man of pleasing or insinuating address.

Address (v. t.) Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady.

Address (v. t.) Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness.

Addressee (n.) One to whom anything is addressed.

Addression (n.) The act of addressing or directing one's course.

Adduced (imp. & p. p.) of Adduce

Adducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adduce

Adduce (v. t.) To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege.

Adducent (a.) Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word applied to those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another. Opposed to abducent.

Adducer (n.) One who adduces.

Adducible (a.) Capable of being adduced.

Adduct (v. t.) To draw towards a common center or a middle line.

Adduction (n.) The act of adducing or bringing forward.

Adduction (n.) The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards its axis]; -- opposed to abduction.

Adductive (a.) Adducing, or bringing towards or to something.

Adductor (n.) A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward the middle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; -- opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eye toward the nose.

Addulce (v. t.) To sweeten; to soothe.

Adeem (v. t.) To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some other gift.

Adelantadillo (n.) A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes.

Adelantado (n.) A governor of a province; a commander.

Adelaster (n.) A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowers botanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to its proper genus.

Adeling (n.) Same as Atheling.

Adelocodonic (a.) Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike form and do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic.

Adelopod (n.) An animal having feet that are not apparent.

Adelphia (n.) A brotherhood, or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- used in composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc.

Adelphous (a.) Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens; as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous.

Adempt (p. p.) Takes away.

Ademption (n.) The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, or the like.

Aden- () Alt. of Adeno-

Adeno- () Combining forms of the Greek word for gland; -- used in words relating to the structure, diseases, etc., of the glands.

Adenalgia (n.) Alt. of Adenalgy

Adenalgy (n.) Pain in a gland.

Adeniform (a.) Shaped like a gland; adenoid.

Adenitis (n.) Glandular inflammation.

Adenographic (a.) Pertaining to adenography.

Adenography (n.) That part of anatomy which describes the glands.

Adenoid (a.) Alt. of Adenoidal

Adenoidal (a.) Glandlike; glandular.

Adenological (a.) Pertaining to adenology.

Adenology (n.) The part of physiology that treats of the glands.

Adenophorous (a.) Producing glands.

Adenophyllous (a.) Having glands on the leaves.

Adenose (a.) Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous.

Adenotomic (a.) Pertaining to adenotomy.

Adenotomy (n.) Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands.

Adenous (a.) Same as Adenose.

Adeps (n.) Animal fat; lard.

Adept (n.) One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as, adepts in philosophy.

Adept (a.) Well skilled; completely versed; thoroughly proficient.

Adeption (a.) An obtaining; attainment.

Adeptist (n.) A skilled alchemist.

Adeptness (n.) The quality of being adept; skill.

Adequacy (n.) The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, or sufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacy of supply to the expenditure.

Adequate (a.) Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent; fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequate definition.

Adequate (a.) To equalize; to make adequate.

Adequate (a.) To equal.

Adequately (adv.) In an adequate manner.

Adequateness (n.) The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency; adequacy.

Adequation (n.) The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; an equivalent.

Adesmy (n.) The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually entire.

Adessenarian (n.) One who held the real presence of Christ's body in the eucharist, but not by transubstantiation.

Adfected (v.) See Affected, 5.

Adfiliated (a.) See Affiliated.

Adfiliation (n.) See Affiliation.

Adfluxion (n.) See Affluxion.

Adhamant (a.) Clinging, as by hooks.

Adhered (imp. & p. p.) of Adhere

Adhering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adhere

Adhere (v. i.) To stick fast or cleave, as a glutinous substance does; to become joined or united; as, wax to the finger; the lungs sometimes adhere to the pleura.

Adhere (v. i.) To hold, be attached, or devoted; to remain fixed, either by personal union or conformity of faith, principle, or opinion; as, men adhere to a party, a cause, a leader, a church.

Adhere (v. i.) To be consistent or coherent; to be in accordance; to agree.

Adherence (n.) The quality or state of adhering.

Adherence (n.) The state of being fixed in attachment; fidelity; steady attachment; adhesion; as, adherence to a party or to opinions.

Adherency (n.) The state or quality of being adherent; adherence.

Adherency (n.) That which adheres.

Adherent (a.) Sticking; clinging; adhering.

Adherent (a.) Attached as an attribute or circumstance.

Adherent (a.) Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyx with ovary, or stamens with petals.

Adherent (n.) One who adheres; one who adheres; one who follows a leader, party, or profession; a follower, or partisan; a believer in a particular faith or church.

Adherent (n.) That which adheres; an appendage.

Adherently (adv.) In an adherent manner.

Adherer (n.) One who adheres; an adherent.

Adhesion (n.) The action of sticking; the state of being attached; intimate union; as, the adhesion of glue, or of parts united by growth, cement, or the like.

Adhesion (n.) Adherence; steady or firm attachment; fidelity; as, adhesion to error, to a policy.

Adhesion (n.) Agreement to adhere; concurrence; assent.

Adhesion (n.) The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. See Cohesion.

Adhesion (n.) Union of surface, normally separate, by the formation of new tissue resulting from an inflammatory process.

Adhesion (n.) The union of parts which are separate in other plants, or in younger states of the same plant.

Adhesive (a.) Sticky; tenacious, as glutinous substances.

Adhesive (a.) Apt or tending to adhere; clinging.

Adhesively (adv.) In an adhesive manner.

Adhesiveness (n.) The quality of sticking or adhering; stickiness; tenacity of union.

Adhesiveness (n.) Propensity to form and maintain attachments to persons, and to promote social intercourse.

Adhibit (v. t.) To admit, as a person or thing; to take in.

Adhibit (v. t.) To use or apply; to administer.

Adhibit (v. t.) To attach; to affix.

Adhibition (n.) The act of adhibiting; application; use.

Ad hominem () A phrase applied to an appeal or argument addressed to the principles, interests, or passions of a man.

Adhort (v. t.) To exhort; to advise.

Adhortation (n.) Advice; exhortation.

Adhortatory (a.) Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory.

Adiabatic (a.) Not giving out or receiving heat.

Adiactinic (a.) Not transmitting the actinic rays.

Adiantum (n.) A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair. Also, the black maidenhair, a species of spleenwort.

Adiaphorism (n.) Religious indifference.

Adiaphorist (n.) One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held some opinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, which Luther condemned as sinful or heretical.

Adiaphoristic (a.) Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice.

Adiaphorite (n.) Same as Adiaphorist.

Adiaphorous (a.) Indifferent or neutral.

Adiaphorous (a.) Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines.

Adiaphory (n.) Indifference.

Adiathermic (a.) Not pervious to heat.

Adieu (interj. & adv.) Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.

Adieus (pl. ) of Adieu

Adieu (n.) A farewell; commendation to the care of God at parting.

Adight (p. p.) of Adight

Adight (v. t.) To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress.

Ad infinitum () Without limit; endlessly.

Ad interim () Meanwhile; temporary.

Adipescent (a.) Becoming fatty.

Adipic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; -- applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric acid.

Adipocerate (v. t.) To convert into adipocere.

Adipoceration (n.) The act or process of changing into adipocere.

Adipocere (n.) A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color, into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes are converted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places. It is a result of fatty degeneration.

Adipoceriform (a.) Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, an adipoceriform tumor.

Adipocerous (a.) Like adipocere.

Adipose (a.) Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty.

Adiposeness (n.) Alt. of Adiposity

Adiposity (n.) The state of being fat; fatness.

Adipous (a.) Fatty; adipose.

Adipsous (a.) Quenching thirst, as certain fruits.

Adipsy (n.) Absence of thirst.

Adit (n.) An entrance or passage. Specifically: The nearly horizontal opening by which a mine is entered, or by which water and ores are carried away; -- called also drift and tunnel.

Adit (n.) Admission; approach; access.

Adjacence () Alt. of Adjacency

Adjacency () The state of being adjacent or contiguous; contiguity; as, the adjacency of lands or buildings.

Adjacency () That which is adjacent.

Adjacent (a.) Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on; as, a field adjacent to the highway.

Adjacent (n.) That which is adjacent.

Adjacently (adv.) So as to be adjacent.

Adject (v. t.) To add or annex; to join.

Adjection (n.) The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added.

Adjectional (a.) Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed.

Adjectitious () Added; additional.

Adjectival (a.) Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the nature of an adjective; adjective.

Adjectivally (adv.) As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.

Adjective (n.) Added to a substantive as an attribute; of the nature of an adjunct; as, an adjective word or sentence.

Adjective (n.) Not standing by itself; dependent.

Adjective (n.) Relating to procedure.

Adjective (n.) A word used with a noun, or substantive, to express a quality of the thing named, or something attributed to it, or to limit or define it, or to specify or describe a thing, as distinct from something else. Thus, in phrase, a wise ruler, wise is the adjective, expressing a property of ruler.

Adjective (n.) A dependent; an accessory.

Adjectived (imp. & p. p.) of Adjective

Adjectiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjective

Adjective (v. t.) To make an adjective of; to form or change into an adjective.

Adjectively (adv.) In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively.

Adjoined (imp. & p. p.) of Adjoin

Adjoining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjoin

Adjoin (v. t.) To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact with; to attach; to append.

Adjoin (v. i.) To lie or be next, or in contact; to be contiguous; as, the houses adjoin.

Adjoin (v. i.) To join one's self.

Adjoinant (a.) Contiguous.

Adjoining (a.) Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room.

Adjoint (n.) An adjunct; a helper.

Adjourned (imp. & p. p.) of Adjourn

Adjourning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjourn

Adjourn (v. t.) To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; to postpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of the meeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting; to adjourn a debate.

Adjourn (v. i.) To suspend business for a time, as from one day to another, or for a longer period, or indefinitely; usually, to suspend public business, as of legislatures and courts, or other convened bodies; as, congress adjourned at four o'clock; the court adjourned without day.

Adjournal (n.) Adjournment; postponement.

Adjournment (n.) The act of adjourning; the putting off till another day or time specified, or without day.

Adjournment (n.) The time or interval during which a public body adjourns its sittings or postpones business.

Adjudged (imp. & p. p.) of Adjudge

Adjudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjudge

Adjudge (v. t.) To award judicially in the case of a controverted question; as, the prize was adjudged to the victor.

Adjudge (v. t.) To determine in the exercise of judicial power; to decide or award judicially; to adjudicate; as, the case was adjudged in the November term.

Adjudge (v. t.) To sentence; to condemn.

Adjudge (v. t.) To regard or hold; to judge; to deem.

Adjudger (n.) One who adjudges.

Adjudgment (n.) The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication.

Adjudicated (imp. & p. p.) of Adjudicate

Adjudicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjudicate

Adjudicate (v. t.) To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle by judicial decree.

Adjudicate (v. i.) To come to a judicial decision; as, the court adjudicated upon the case.

Adjudication (n.) The act of adjudicating; the act or process of trying and determining judicially.

Adjudication (n.) A deliberate determination by the judicial power; a judicial decision or sentence.

Adjudication (n.) The decision upon the question whether the debtor is a bankrupt.

Adjudication (n.) A process by which land is attached security or in satisfaction of a debt.

Adjudicative (a.) Adjudicating.

Adjudicator (n.) One who adjudicates.

Adjudicature (n.) Adjudication.

Adjugate (v. t.) To yoke to.

Adjument (n.) Help; support; also, a helper.

Adjuvant (n.) A substance added to an immunogenic agent to enhance the production of antibodies.

Adjuvant (n.) A substance added to a formulation of a drug which enhances the effect of the active ingredient.

Adjunct (a.) Conjoined; attending; consequent.

Adjunct (n.) Something joined or added to another thing, but not essentially a part of it.

Adjunct (n.) A person joined to another in some duty or service; a colleague; an associate.

Adjunct (n.) A word or words added to quality or amplify the force of other words; as, the History of the American Revolution, where the words in italics are the adjunct or adjuncts of History.

Adjunct (n.) A quality or property of the body or the mind, whether natural or acquired; as, color, in the body, judgment in the mind.

Adjunct (n.) A key or scale closely related to another as principal; a relative or attendant key. [R.] See Attendant keys, under Attendant, a.

Adjunction (n.) The act of joining; the thing joined or added.

Adjunctive (a.) Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.

Adjunctive (n.) One who, or that which, is joined.

Adjunctively (adv.) In an adjunctive manner.

Adjunctly (adv.) By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.

Adjuration (n.) The act of adjuring; a solemn charging on oath, or under the penalty of a curse; an earnest appeal.

Adjuration (n.) The form of oath or appeal.

Adjuratory (a.) Containing an adjuration.

Adjured (imp. & p. p.) of Adjure

Adjuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjure

Adjure (v. t.) To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or impressive manner; to entreat earnestly.

Adjurer (n.) One who adjures.

Adjusted (imp. & p. p.) of Adjust

Adjusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjust

Adjust (v. t.) To make exact; to fit; to make correspondent or conformable; to bring into proper relations; as, to adjust a garment to the body, or things to a standard.

Adjust (v. t.) To put in order; to regulate, or reduce to system.

Adjust (v. t.) To settle or bring to a satisfactory state, so that parties are agreed in the result; as, to adjust accounts; the differences are adjusted.

Adjust (v. t.) To bring to a true relative position, as the parts of an instrument; to regulate for use; as, to adjust a telescope or microscope.

Adjustable (a.) Capable of being adjusted.

Adjustage (n.) Adjustment.

Adjuster (n.) One who, or that which, adjusts.

Adjustive (a.) Tending to adjust.

Adjustment (n.) The act of adjusting, or condition of being adjusted; act of bringing into proper relations; regulation.

Adjustment (n.) Settlement of claims; an equitable arrangement of conflicting claims, as in set-off, contribution, exoneration, subrogation, and marshaling.

Adjustment (n.) The operation of bringing all the parts of an instrument, as a microscope or telescope, into their proper relative position for use; the condition of being thus adjusted; as, to get a good adjustment; to be in or out of adjustment.

Adjutage (n.) Same as Ajutage.

Adjutancy (n.) The office of an adjutant.

Adjutancy (n.) Skillful arrangement in aid; assistance.

Adjutant (n.) A helper; an assistant.

Adjutant (n.) A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, or commanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details of regimental and garrison duty.

Adjutant (n.) A species of very large stork (Ciconia argala), a native of India; -- called also the gigantic crane, and by the native name argala. It is noted for its serpent-destroying habits.

Adjutator (n.) A corruption of Agitator.

Adjute (v. t.) To add.

Adjutor (n.) A helper or assistant.

Adjutory (a.) Serving to help or assist; helping.

Adjutrix (n.) A female helper or assistant.

Adjuvant (a.) Helping; helpful; assisting.

Adjuvant (n.) An assistant.

Adjuvant (n.) An ingredient, in a prescription, which aids or modifies the action of the principal ingredient.

Adlegation (n.) A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire of joining their own ministers with those of the emperor in public treaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire.

Ad libitum () At one's pleasure; as one wishes.

Adlocution (n.) See Allocution.

Admarginate (v. t.) To write in the margin.

Admaxillary (a.) Near to the maxilla or jawbone.

Admeasure (v. t.) To measure.

Admeasure (v. t.) To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment; as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture.

Admeasure (v. t.) The measure of a thing; dimensions; size.

Admeasure (v. t.) Formerly, the adjustment of proportion, or ascertainment of shares, as of dower or pasture held in common. This was by writ of admeasurement, directed to the sheriff.

Admeasurer (n.) One who admeasures.

Admensuration (n.) Same as Admeasurement.

Adminicle (n.) Help or support; an auxiliary.

Adminicle (n.) Corroborative or explanatory proof.

Adminicular (a.) Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as, adminicular evidence.

Adminiculary (a.) Adminicular.

Administered (imp. & p. p.) of Administer

Administering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Administer

Administer (v. t.) To manage or conduct, as public affairs; to direct or superintend the execution, application, or conduct of; as, to administer the government or the state.

Administer (v. t.) To dispense; to serve out; to supply; execute; as, to administer relief, to administer the sacrament.

Administer (v. t.) To apply, as medicine or a remedy; to give, as a dose or something beneficial or suitable. Extended to a blow, a reproof, etc.

Administer (v. t.) To tender, as an oath.

Administer (v. t.) To settle, as the estate of one who dies without a will, or whose will fails of an executor.

Administer (v. i.) To contribute; to bring aid or supplies; to conduce; to minister.

Administer (v. i.) To perform the office of administrator; to act officially; as, A administers upon the estate of B.

Administer (n.) Administrator.

Administerial (a.) Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part of government.

Administrable (a.) Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law.

Administrant (a.) Executive; acting; managing affairs.

Administrant (n.) One who administers.

Administrate (v. t.) To administer.

Administration (n.) The act of administering; government of public affairs; the service rendered, or duties assumed, in conducting affairs; the conducting of any office or employment; direction; management.

Administration (n.) The executive part of government; the persons collectively who are intrusted with the execution of laws and the superintendence of public affairs; the chief magistrate and his cabinet or council; or the council, or ministry, alone, as in Great Britain.

Administration (n.) The act of administering, or tendering something to another; dispensation; as, the administration of a medicine, of an oath, of justice, or of the sacrament.

Administration (n.) The management and disposal, under legal authority, of the estate of an intestate, or of a testator having no competent executor.

Administration (n.) The management of an estate of a deceased person by an executor, the strictly corresponding term execution not being in use.

Administrative (a.) Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, an administrative body, ability, or energy.

Administrator (n.) One who administers affairs; one who directs, manages, executes, or dispenses, whether in civil, judicial, political, or ecclesiastical affairs; a manager.

Administrator (n.) A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or of a testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the right of administration has been committed by competent authority.

Administratorship (n.) The position or office of an administrator.

Administratrix (n.) A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estate of an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have been granted; a female administrator.

Admirability (n.) Admirableness.

Admirable (a.) Fitted to excite wonder; wonderful; marvelous.

Admirable (a.) Having qualities to excite wonder united with approbation; deserving the highest praise; most excellent; -- used of persons or things.

Admirableness (n.) The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.

Admirably (adv.) In an admirable manner.

Admiral (n.) A naval officer of the highest rank; a naval officer of high rank, of which there are different grades. The chief gradations in rank are admiral, vice admiral, and rear admiral. The admiral is the commander in chief of a fleet or of fleets.

Admiral (n.) The ship which carries the admiral; also, the most considerable ship of a fleet.

Admiral (n.) A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America. The larva feeds on nettles.

Admiralship (n.) The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill of an admiral.

Admiralties (pl. ) of Admiralty

Admiralty (n.) The office or jurisdiction of an admiral.

Admiralty (n.) The department or officers having authority over naval affairs generally.

Admiralty (n.) The court which has jurisdiction of maritime questions and offenses.

Admiralty (n.) The system of jurisprudence of admiralty courts.

Admiralty (n.) The building in which the lords of the admiralty, in England, transact business.

Admirance (n.) Admiration.

Admiration (n.) Wonder; astonishment.

Admiration (n.) Wonder mingled with approbation or delight; an emotion excited by a person or thing possessed of wonderful or high excellence; as, admiration of a beautiful woman, of a landscape, of virtue.

Admiration (n.) Cause of admiration; something to excite wonder, or pleased surprise; a prodigy.

Admirative (a.) Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder.

Admired (imp. & p. p.) of Admire

Admiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Admire

Admire (v. t.) To regard with wonder or astonishment; to view with surprise; to marvel at.

Admire (v. t.) To regard with wonder and delight; to look upon with an elevated feeling of pleasure, as something which calls out approbation, esteem, love, or reverence; to estimate or prize highly; as, to admire a person of high moral worth, to admire a landscape.

Admire (v. i.) To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; -- sometimes with at.

Admired (a.) Regarded with wonder and delight; highly prized; as, an admired poem.

Admired (a.) Wonderful; also, admirable.

Admirer (n.) One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly.

Admiring (a.) Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance.

Admissibility (n.) The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, the admissibility of evidence.

Admissible (a.) Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that may be allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardly admissible.

Admission (n.) The act or practice of admitting.

Admission (n.) Power or permission to enter; admittance; entrance; access; power to approach.

Admission (n.) The granting of an argument or position not fully proved; the act of acknowledging something /serted; acknowledgment; concession.

Admission (n.) Acquiescence or concurrence in a statement made by another, and distinguishable from a confession in that an admission presupposes prior inquiry by another, but a confession may be made without such inquiry.

Admission (n.) A fact, point, or statement admitted; as, admission made out of court are received in evidence.

Admission (n.) Declaration of the bishop that he approves of the presentee as a fit person to serve the cure of the church to which he is presented.

Admissive (a.) Implying an admission; tending to admit.

Admissory (a.) Pertaining to admission.

Admitted (imp. & p. p.) of Admit

Admitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Admit

Admit (v. t.) To suffer to enter; to grant entrance, whether into a place, or into the mind, or consideration; to receive; to take; as, they were into his house; to admit a serious thought into the mind; to admit evidence in the trial of a cause.

Admit (v. t.) To give a right of entrance; as, a ticket admits one into a playhouse.

Admit (v. t.) To allow (one) to enter on an office or to enjoy a privilege; to recognize as qualified for a franchise; as, to admit an attorney to practice law; the prisoner was admitted to bail.

Admit (v. t.) To concede as true; to acknowledge or assent to, as an allegation which it is impossible to deny; to own or confess; as, the argument or fact is admitted; he admitted his guilt.

Admit (v. t.) To be capable of; to permit; as, the words do not admit such a construction. In this sense, of may be used after the verb, or may be omitted.

Admittable (a.) Admissible.

Admittance (n.) The act of admitting.

Admittance (n.) Permission to enter; the power or right of entrance; also, actual entrance; reception.

Admittance (n.) Concession; admission; allowance; as, the admittance of an argument.

Admittance (n.) Admissibility.

Admittance (n.) The act of giving possession of a copyhold estate.

Admittatur (n.) The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.

Admitted (a.) Received as true or valid; acknowledged.

Admittedly (adv.) Confessedly.

Admitter (n.) One who admits.

Admix (v. t.) To mingle with something else; to mix.

Admixtion (n.) A mingling of different things; admixture.

Admixture (n.) The act of mixing; mixture.

Admixture (n.) The compound formed by mixing different substances together.

Admixture (n.) That which is mixed with anything.

Admonished (imp. & p. p.) of Admonish

Admonishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Admonish

Admonish (v. t.) To warn or notify of a fault; to reprove gently or kindly, but seriously; to exhort.

Admonish (v. t.) To counsel against wrong practices; to cation or advise; to warn against danger or an offense; -- followed by of, against, or a subordinate clause.

Admonish (v. t.) To instruct or direct; to inform; to notify.

Admonisher (n.) One who admonishes.

Admonishment (n.) Admonition.

Admonition (n.) Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault or error; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution or warning.

Admonitioner (n.) Admonisher.

Admonitive (a.) Admonitory.

Admonitor (n.) Admonisher; monitor.

Admonitorial (a.) Admonitory.

Admonitory (a.) That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, an admonitory glance.

Admonitrix (n.) A female admonitor.

Admortization (n.) The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain.

Admove (v. t.) To move or conduct to or toward.

Adnascent (a.) Growing to or on something else.

Adnate (a.) Grown to congenitally.

Adnate (a.) Growing together; -- said only of organic cohesion of unlike parts.

Adnate (a.) Growing with one side adherent to a stem; -- a term applied to the lateral zooids of corals and other compound animals.

Adnation (n.) The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or sets of organs.

Adnominal (a.) Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun.

Adnoun (n.) An adjective, or attribute.

Adnubilated (a.) Clouded; obscured.

Ado (n.) To do; in doing; as, there is nothing ado.

Ado (n.) Doing; trouble; difficulty; troublesome business; fuss; bustle; as, to make a great ado about trifles.

Adobe (n.) An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective, as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.

Adolescence (n.) The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood; youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generally considered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one. Sometimes used with reference to the lower animals.

Adolescency (n.) The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness.

Adolescent (a.) Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity.

Adolescent (n.) A youth.

Adonean (a.) Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic.

Adonic (a.) Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty.

Adonic (n.) An Adonic verse.

Adonis (n.) A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in the chase by a wild boar.

Adonis (n.) A preeminently beautiful young man; a dandy.

Adonis (n.) A genus of plants of the family Ranunculaceae, containing the pheasant's eye (Adonis autumnalis); -- named from Adonis, whose blood was fabled to have stained the flower.

Adonist (n.) One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah are really the vowel points of the word Adonai. See Jehovist.

Adonize (v. t.) To beautify; to dandify.

Adoor () Alt. of Adoors

Adoors () At the door; of the door; as, out adoors.

Adopted (imp. & p. p.) of Adopt

Adopting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adopt

Adopt (v. t.) To take by choice into relationship, as, child, heir, friend, citizen, etc.; esp. to take voluntarily (a child of other parents) to be in the place of, or as, one's own child.

Adopt (v. t.) To take or receive as one's own what is not so naturally; to select and take or approve; as, to adopt the view or policy of another; these resolutions were adopted.

Adoptable (a.) Capable of being adopted.

Adopted (a.) Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son, citizen, country, word.

Adopter (n.) One who adopts.

Adopter (n.) A receiver, with two necks, opposite to each other, one of which admits the neck of a retort, and the other is joined to another receiver. It is used in distillations, to give more space to elastic vapors, to increase the length of the neck of a retort, or to unite two vessels whose openings have different diameters.

Adoption (n.) The act of adopting, or state of being adopted; voluntary acceptance of a child of other parents to be the same as one's own child.

Adoption (n.) Admission to a more intimate relation; reception; as, the adoption of persons into hospitals or monasteries, or of one society into another.

Adoption (n.) The choosing and making that to be one's own which originally was not so; acceptance; as, the adoption of opinions.

Adoptionist (n.) One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of God not by nature but by adoption.

Adoptious (a.) Adopted.

Adoptive (a.) Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted to adopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language.

Adorability (n.) Adorableness.

Adorable (a.) Deserving to be adored; worthy of divine honors.

Adorable (a.) Worthy of the utmost love or respect.

Adorableness (n.) The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration.

Adorably (adv.) In an adorable manner.

Adoration (n.) The act of playing honor to a divine being; the worship paid to God; the act of addressing as a god.

Adoration (n.) Homage paid to one in high esteem; profound veneration; intense regard and love; fervent devotion.

Adoration (n.) A method of electing a pope by the expression of homage from two thirds of the conclave.

Adoring (imp. & p. p. Adored (/); p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adore

Adore (v. t.) To worship with profound reverence; to pay divine honors to; to honor as deity or as divine.

Adore (v. t.) To love in the highest degree; to regard with the utmost esteem and affection; to idolize.

Adore (v. t.) To adorn.

Adorement (n.) The act of adoring; adoration.

Adorer (n.) One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly; an ardent admirer.

Adoringly (adv.) With adoration.

Adorned (imp. & p. p.) of Adorn

Adorning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adorn

Adorn (v. t.) To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to advantage; to render pleasing or attractive.

Adorn (n.) Adornment.

Adorn (a.) Adorned; decorated.

Adornation (n.) Adornment.

Adorner (n.) He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier.

Adorningly (adv.) By adorning; decoratively.

Adornment (n.) An adorning; an ornament; a decoration.

Adosculation (n.) Impregnation by external contact, without intromission.

Adown (adv.) From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on the ground.

Adown (prep.) Down.

Adpress (v. t.) See Appressed.

Adrad (p. a.) Put in dread; afraid.

Adragant (n.) Gum tragacanth.

Adread (v. t. & i.) To dread.

Adreamed (p. p.) Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, to dream.

Adrenal (a.) Suprarenal.

Adrian (a.) Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows.

Adriatic (a.) Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part of which is known as the Gulf of Venice.

Adrift (adv. & a.) Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of wind and waves. Also fig.

Adrip (adv. & a.) In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip.

Adrogate (v. t.) To adopt (a person who is his own master).

Adrogation (n.) A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation.

Adroit (a.) Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied to persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply.

Adroitly (adv.) In an adroit manner.

Adroitness (n.) The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity.

Adry (a.) In a dry or thirsty condition.

Adscititious (a.) Supplemental; additional; adventitious; ascititious.

Adscript (a.) Held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudal serfs.

Adscript (n.) One held to service as attached to the glebe or estate; a feudal serf.

Adscriptive (a.) Attached or annexed to the glebe or estate and transferable with it.

Adsignification (n.) Additional signification.

Adsignify (v. t.) To denote additionally.

Adstrict (n.) See Astrict, and Astriction.

Adstrictory (a.) See Astrictory.

Adstringent (a.) See Astringent.

Adularia (n.) A transparent or translucent variety of common feldspar, or orthoclase, which often shows pearly opalescent reflections; -- called by lapidaries moonstone.

Adulate (v. t.) To flatter in a servile way.

Adulation (n.) Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited.

Adulator (n.) A servile or hypocritical flatterer.

Adulatory (a.) Containing excessive praise or compliment; servilely praising; flattering; as, an adulatory address.

Adulatress (n.) A woman who flatters with servility.

Adult (a.) Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength; matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age.

Adult (n.) A person, animal, or plant grown to full size and strength; one who has reached maturity.

Adulter (v. i.) To commit adultery; to pollute.

Adulterant (n.) That which is used to adulterate anything.

Adulterant (a.) Adulterating; as, adulterant agents and processes.

Adulterated (imp. & p. p.) of Adulterate

Adulterating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adulterate

Adulterate (v. t.) To defile by adultery.

Adulterate (v. t.) To corrupt, debase, or make impure by an admixture of a foreign or a baser substance; as, to adulterate food, drink, drugs, coin, etc.

Adulterate (v. i.) To commit adultery.

Adulterate (a.) Tainted with adultery.

Adulterate (a.) Debased by the admixture of a foreign substance; adulterated; spurious.

Adulteration (n.) The act of adulterating; corruption, or debasement (esp. of food or drink) by foreign mixture.

Adulteration (n.) An adulterated state or product.

Adulterator (n.) One who adulterates or corrupts.

Adulterer (n.) A man who commits adultery; a married man who has sexual intercourse with a woman not his wife.

Adulterer (n.) A man who violates his religious covenant.

Adulteress (n.) A woman who commits adultery.

Adulteress (n.) A woman who violates her religious engagements.

Adulterine (a.) Proceeding from adulterous intercourse. Hence: Spurious; without the support of law; illegal.

Adulterine (n.) An illegitimate child.

Adulterize (v. i.) To commit adultery.

Adulterous (a.) Guilty of, or given to, adultery; pertaining to adultery; illicit.

Adulterous (a.) Characterized by adulteration; spurious.

Adulterously (adv.) In an adulterous manner.

Adulteries (pl. ) of Adultery

Adultery (n.) The unfaithfulness of a married person to the marriage bed; sexual intercourse by a married man with another than his wife, or voluntary sexual intercourse by a married woman with another than her husband.

Adultery (n.) Adulteration; corruption.

Adultery (n.) Lewdness or unchastity of thought as well as act, as forbidden by the seventh commandment.

Adultery (n.) Faithlessness in religion.

Adultery (n.) The fine and penalty imposed for the offense of adultery.

Adultery (n.) The intrusion of a person into a bishopric during the life of the bishop.

Adultery (n.) Injury; degradation; ruin.

Adultness (n.) The state of being adult.

Adumbrant (a.) Giving a faint shadow, or slight resemblance; shadowing forth.

Adumbrate (v. t.) To give a faint shadow or slight representation of; to outline; to shadow forth.

Adumbrate (v. t.) To overshadow; to shade.

Adumbration (n.) The act of adumbrating, or shadowing forth.

Adumbration (n.) A faint sketch; an outline; an imperfect portrayal or representation of a thing.

Adumbration (n.) The shadow or outlines of a figure.

Adumbrative (a.) Faintly representing; typical.

Adunation (n.) A uniting; union.

Adunc (a.) Alt. of Adunque

Adunque (a.) Hooked; as, a parrot has an adunc bill.

Aduncity (n.) Curvature inwards; hookedness.

Aduncous (a.) Curved inwards; hooked.

Adure (v. t.) To burn up.

Adust (a.) Inflamed or scorched; fiery.

Adust (a.) Looking as if or scorched; sunburnt.

Adust (a.) Having much heat in the constitution and little serum in the blood. [Obs.] Hence: Atrabilious; sallow; gloomy.

Adusted (a.) Burnt; adust.

Adustible (a.) That may be burnt.

Adustion (n.) The act of burning, or heating to dryness; the state of being thus heated or dried.

Adustion (n.) Cauterization.

Ad valorem () A term used to denote a duty or charge laid upon goods, at a certain rate per cent upon their value, as stated in their invoice, -- in opposition to a specific sum upon a given quantity or number; as, an ad valorem duty of twenty per cent.

Advanced (imp. & p. p.) of Advance

Advancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advance

Advance (v. t.) To bring forward; to move towards the van or front; to make to go on.

Advance (v. t.) To raise; to elevate.

Advance (v. t.) To raise to a higher rank; to promote.

Advance (v. t.) To accelerate the growth or progress; to further; to forward; to help on; to aid; to heighten; as, to advance the ripening of fruit; to advance one's interests.

Advance (v. t.) To bring to view or notice; to offer or propose; to show; as, to advance an argument.

Advance (v. t.) To make earlier, as an event or date; to hasten.

Advance (v. t.) To furnish, as money or other value, before it becomes due, or in aid of an enterprise; to supply beforehand; as, a merchant advances money on a contract or on goods consigned to him.

Advance (v. t.) To raise to a higher point; to enhance; to raise in rate; as, to advance the price of goods.

Advance (v. t.) To extol; to laud.

Advance (v. i.) To move or go forward; to proceed; as, he advanced to greet me.

Advance (v. i.) To increase or make progress in any respect; as, to advance in knowledge, in stature, in years, in price.

Advance (v. i.) To rise in rank, office, or consequence; to be preferred or promoted.

Advance (v.) The act of advancing or moving forward or upward; progress.

Advance (v.) Improvement or progression, physically, mentally, morally, or socially; as, an advance in health, knowledge, or religion; an advance in rank or office.

Advance (v.) An addition to the price; rise in price or value; as, an advance on the prime cost of goods.

Advance (v.) The first step towards the attainment of a result; approach made to gain favor, to form an acquaintance, to adjust a difference, etc.; an overture; a tender; an offer; -- usually in the plural.

Advance (v.) A furnishing of something before an equivalent is received (as money or goods), towards a capital or stock, or on loan; payment beforehand; the money or goods thus furnished; money or value supplied beforehand.

Advance (a.) Before in place, or beforehand in time; -- used for advanced; as, an advance guard, or that before the main guard or body of an army; advance payment, or that made before it is due; advance proofs, advance sheets, pages of a forthcoming volume, received in advance of the time of publication.

Advanced (a.) In the van or front.

Advanced (a.) In the front or before others, as regards progress or ideas; as, advanced opinions, advanced thinkers.

Advanced (a.) Far on in life or time.

Advancement (v. t.) The act of advancing, or the state of being advanced; progression; improvement; furtherance; promotion to a higher place or dignity; as, the advancement of learning.

Advancement (v. t.) An advance of money or value; payment in advance. See Advance, 5.

Advancement (v. t.) Property given, usually by a parent to a child, in advance of a future distribution.

Advancement (v. t.) Settlement on a wife, or jointure.

Advancer (n.) One who advances; a promoter.

Advancer (n.) A second branch of a buck's antler.

Advancive (a.) Tending to advance.

Advantage (n.) Any condition, circumstance, opportunity, or means, particularly favorable to success, or to any desired end; benefit; as, the enemy had the advantage of a more elevated position.

Advantage (n.) Superiority; mastery; -- with of or over.

Advantage (n.) Superiority of state, or that which gives it; benefit; gain; profit; as, the advantage of a good constitution.

Advantage (n.) Interest of money; increase; overplus (as the thirteenth in the baker's dozen).

Advantaged (imp. & p. p.) of Advantage

Advantaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advantage

Advantage (v. t.) To give an advantage to; to further; to promote; to benefit; to profit.

Advantageable (a.) Advantageous.

Advantageous (a.) Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable; useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade is advantageous to a nation.

Advantageously (adv.) Profitably; with advantage.

Advantageousness (n.) Profitableness.

Advene (v. i.) To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become a part of it, though not essential.

Advenient (a.) Coming from outward causes; superadded.

Advent (n.) The period including the four Sundays before Christmas.

Advent (n.) The first or the expected second coming of Christ.

Advent (n.) Coming; any important arrival; approach.

Adventist (n.) One of a religious body, embracing several branches, who look for the proximate personal coming of Christ; -- called also Second Adventists.

Adventitious (a.) Added extrinsically; not essentially inherent; accidental or causal; additional; supervenient; foreign.

Adventitious (a.) Out of the proper or usual place; as, adventitious buds or roots.

Adventitious (a.) Accidentally or sparingly spontaneous in a country or district; not fully naturalized; adventive; -- applied to foreign plants.

Adventitious (a.) Acquired, as diseases; accidental.

Adventive (a.) Accidental.

Adventive (a.) Adventitious.

Adventive (n.) A thing or person coming from without; an immigrant.

Adventual (a.) Relating to the season of advent.

Adventure (n.) That which happens without design; chance; hazard; hap; hence, chance of danger or loss.

Adventure (n.) Risk; danger; peril.

Adventure (n.) The encountering of risks; hazardous and striking enterprise; a bold undertaking, in which hazards are to be encountered, and the issue is staked upon unforeseen events; a daring feat.

Adventure (n.) A remarkable occurrence; a striking event; a stirring incident; as, the adventures of one's life.

Adventure (n.) A mercantile or speculative enterprise of hazard; a venture; a shipment by a merchant on his own account.

Adventured (imp. & p. p.) of Adventure

Adventuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adventure

Adventure (n.) To risk, or hazard; jeopard; to venture.

Adventure (n.) To venture upon; to run the risk of; to dare.

Adventure (v. i.) To try the chance; to take the risk.

Adventureful (a.) Given to adventure.

Adventurer (n.) One who adventures; as, the merchant adventurers; one who seeks his fortune in new and hazardous or perilous enterprises.

Adventurer (n.) A social pretender on the lookout for advancement.

Adventuresome (a.) Full of risk; adventurous; venturesome.

Adventuress (n.) A female adventurer; a woman who tries to gain position by equivocal means.

Adventurous (n.) Inclined to adventure; willing to incur hazard; prone to embark in hazardous enterprise; rashly daring; -- applied to persons.

Adventurous (n.) Full of hazard; attended with risk; exposing to danger; requiring courage; rash; -- applied to acts; as, an adventurous undertaking, deed, song.

Adventurously (adv.) In an adventurous manner; venturesomely; boldly; daringly.

Adventurousness (n.) The quality or state of being adventurous; daring; venturesomeness.

Adverb (n.) A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle, adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writes well; paper extremely white.

Adverbial (a.) Of or pertaining to an adverb; of the nature of an adverb; as, an adverbial phrase or form.

Adverbiality (n.) The quality of being adverbial.

Adverbialize (v. t.) To give the force or form of an adverb to.

Adverbially (adv.) In the manner of an adverb.

Adversaria (n. pl.) A miscellaneous collection of notes, remarks, or selections; a commonplace book; also, commentaries or notes.

Adversarious (a.) Hostile.

Adversaries (pl. ) of Adversary

Adversary (n.) One who is turned against another or others with a design to oppose or resist them; a member of an opposing or hostile party; an opponent; an antagonist; an enemy; a foe.

Adversary (a.) Opposed; opposite; adverse; antagonistic.

Adversary (a.) Having an opposing party; not unopposed; as, an adversary suit.

Adversative (a.) Expressing contrariety, opposition, or antithesis; as, an adversative conjunction (but, however, yet, etc. ); an adversative force.

Adversative (n.) An adversative word.

Adverse (a.) Acting against, or in a contrary direction; opposed; contrary; opposite; conflicting; as, adverse winds; an adverse party; a spirit adverse to distinctions of caste.

Adverse (a.) Opposite.

Adverse (a.) In hostile opposition to; unfavorable; unpropitious; contrary to one's wishes; unfortunate; calamitous; afflictive; hurtful; as, adverse fates, adverse circumstances, things adverse.

Adverse (v. t.) To oppose; to resist.

Adversely (adv.) In an adverse manner; inimically; unfortunately; contrariwise.

Adverseness (n.) The quality or state of being adverse; opposition.

Adversifoliate (a.) Alt. of Adversifolious

Adversifolious (a.) Having opposite leaves, as plants which have the leaves so arranged on the stem.

Adversion (n.) A turning towards; attention.

Adversities (pl. ) of Adversity

Adversity (n.) Opposition; contrariety.

Adverted (imp. & p. p.) of Advert

Adverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advert

Advert (v. i.) To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or notice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said.

Advertence () Alt. of Advertency

Advertency () The act of adverting, of the quality of being advertent; attention; notice; regard; heedfulness.

Advertent (a.) Attentive; heedful; regardful.

Advertised (imp. & p. p.) of Advertise

Advertising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advertise

Advertise (v. t.) To give notice to; to inform or apprise; to notify; to make known; hence, to warn; -- often followed by of before the subject of information; as, to advertise a man of his loss.

Advertise (v. t.) To give public notice of; to announce publicly, esp. by a printed notice; as, to advertise goods for sale, a lost article, the sailing day of a vessel, a political meeting.

Advertisement (n.) The act of informing or notifying; notification.

Advertisement (n.) Admonition; advice; warning.

Advertisement (n.) A public notice, especially a paid notice in some public print; anything that advertises; as, a newspaper containing many advertisements.

Advertiser (n.) One who, or that which, advertises.

Advice (n.) An opinion recommended or offered, as worthy to be followed; counsel.

Advice (n.) Deliberate consideration; knowledge.

Advice (n.) Information or notice given; intelligence; as, late advices from France; -- commonly in the plural.

Advice (n.) Counseling to perform a specific illegal act.

Advisability (n.) The quality of being advisable; advisableness.

Advisable (a.) Proper to be advised or to be done; expedient; prudent.

Advisable (a.) Ready to receive advice.

Advisable-ness (n.) The quality of being advisable or expedient; expediency; advisability.

Advisably (adv.) With advice; wisely.

Advised (imp. & p. p.) of Advise

Advising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advise

Advise (v. t.) To give advice to; to offer an opinion, as worthy or expedient to be followed; to counsel; to warn.

Advise (v. t.) To give information or notice to; to inform; -- with of before the thing communicated; as, we were advised of the risk.

Advise (v. t.) To consider; to deliberate.

Advise (v. t.) To take counsel; to consult; -- followed by with; as, to advise with friends.

Advisedly (adv.) Circumspectly; deliberately; leisurely.

Advisedly (adv.) With deliberate purpose; purposely; by design.

Advisedness (n.) Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution.

Advisement (n.) Counsel; advice; information.

Advisement (n.) Consideration; deliberation; consultation.

Adviser (n.) One who advises.

Advisership (n.) The office of an adviser.

Adviso (n.) Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat.

Advisory (a.) Having power to advise; containing advice; as, an advisory council; their opinion is merely advisory.

Advocacy (n.) The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating; intercession.

Advocate (n.) One who pleads the cause of another. Specifically: One who pleads the cause of another before a tribunal or judicial court; a counselor.

Advocate (n.) One who defends, vindicates, or espouses any cause by argument; a pleader; as, an advocate of free trade, an advocate of truth.

Advocate (n.) Christ, considered as an intercessor.

Advocated (imp. & p. p.) of Advocate

Advocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advocate

Advocate (n.) To plead in favor of; to defend by argument, before a tribunal or the public; to support, vindicate, or recommend publicly.

Advocate (v. i.) To act as advocate.

Advocateship (n.) Office or duty of an advocate.

Advocation (n.) The act of advocating or pleading; plea; advocacy.

Advocation (n.) Advowson.

Advocation (n.) The process of removing a cause from an inferior court to the supreme court.

Advocatory (a.) Of or pertaining to an advocate.

Advoke (v. t.) To summon; to call.

Advolution (n.) A rolling toward something.

Advoutrer (n.) An adulterer.

Advoutress (n.) An adulteress.

Advoutry (n.) Alt. of Advowtry

Advowtry (n.) Adultery.

Advowee (n.) One who has an advowson.

Advowson (n.) The right of presenting to a vacant benefice or living in the church. [Originally, the relation of a patron (advocatus) or protector of a benefice, and thus privileged to nominate or present to it.]

Advoyer (n.) See Avoyer.

Adward (n.) Award.

Adynamia (n.) Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever.

Adynamic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, debility of the vital powers; weak.

Adynamic (a.) Characterized by the absence of power or force.

Adynamy (n.) Adynamia.

Adyta (pl. ) of Adytum

Adytum (n.) The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whence oracles were given. Hence: A private chamber; a sanctum.

Adz (n.) Alt. of Adze

Adze (n.) A carpenter's or cooper's tool, formed with a thin arching blade set at right angles to the handle. It is used for chipping or slicing away the surface of wood.

Adz (v. t.) To cut with an adz.

Ae () Alt. of Ae

Ae () A diphthong in the Latin language; used also by the Saxon writers. It answers to the Gr. ai. The Anglo-Saxon short ae was generally replaced by a, the long / by e or ee. In derivatives from Latin words with ae, it is mostly superseded by e. For most words found with this initial combination, the reader will therefore search under the letter E.

Aecidia (pl. ) of Aecidium

Aecidium (n.) A form of fruit in the cycle of development of the Rusts or Brands, an order of fungi, formerly considered independent plants.

Aedile (n.) A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence of public buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer.

Aedileship (n.) The office of an aedile.

Aegean (a.) Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea, east of Greece. See Archipelago.

Aegicrania (n. pl.) Sculptured ornaments, used in classical architecture, representing rams' heads or skulls.

Aegilops (n.) An ulcer or fistula in the inner corner of the eye.

Aegilops (n.) The great wild-oat grass or other cornfield weed.

Aegilops (n.) A genus of plants, called also hardgrass.

Aegis (n.) A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; a protection.

Aegophony (n.) Same as Egophony.

Aegrotat (n.) A medical certificate that a student is ill.

Aeneid (n.) The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Aeneas.

Aeneous (a.) Colored like bronze.

Aeolian (a.) Of or pertaining to Aeolia or Aeolis, in Asia Minor, colonized by the Greeks, or to its inhabitants; aeolic; as, the Aeolian dialect.

Aeolian (a.) Pertaining to Aeolus, the mythic god of the winds; pertaining to, or produced by, the wind; aerial.

Aeolic (a.) Aeolian, 1; as, the Aeolic dialect; the Aeolic mode.

Aeolipile (n.) Alt. of Aeolipyle

Aeolipyle (n.) An apparatus consisting chiefly of a closed vessel (as a globe or cylinder) with one or more projecting bent tubes, through which steam is made to pass from the vessel, causing it to revolve.

Aeolotropic (a.) Exhibiting differences of quality or property in different directions; not isotropic.

Aeolotropy (n.) Difference of quality or property in different directions.

Aeolus (n.) The god of the winds.

Aeon (n.) A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of the Deity. See Eon.

Aeonian (a.) Eternal; everlasting.

Aepyornis (n.) A gigantic bird found fossil in Madagascar.

Aerated (imp. & p. p.) of Aerate

Aerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aerate

Aerate (v. t.) To combine or charge with gas; usually with carbonic acid gas, formerly called fixed air.

Aerate (v. t.) To supply or impregnate with common air; as, to aerate soil; to aerate water.

Aerate (v. t.) To expose to the chemical action of air; to oxygenate (the blood) by respiration; to arterialize.

Aeration (n.) Exposure to the free action of the air; airing; as, aeration of soil, of spawn, etc.

Aeration (n.) A change produced in the blood by exposure to the air in respiration; oxygenation of the blood in respiration; arterialization.

Aeration (n.) The act or preparation of charging with carbonic acid gas or with oxygen.

Aerator (n.) That which supplies with air; esp. an apparatus used for charging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.

Aerial (a.) Of or pertaining to the air, or atmosphere; inhabiting or frequenting the air; produced by or found in the air; performed in the air; as, aerial regions or currents.

Aerial (a.) Consisting of air; resembling, or partaking of the nature of air. Hence: Unsubstantial; unreal.

Aerial (a.) Rising aloft in air; high; lofty; as, aerial spires.

Aerial (a.) Growing, forming, or existing in the air, as opposed to growing or existing in earth or water, or underground; as, aerial rootlets, aerial plants.

Aerial (a.) Light as air; ethereal.

Aeriality (n.) The state of being aerial; unsubstantiality.

Aerially (adv.) Like, or from, the air; in an aerial manner.

Aerie (n.) The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a brood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence or resting place perched like an eagle's nest.

Aeriferous (a.) Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe is an aeriferous tube.

Aerification (n.) The act of combining air with another substance, or the state of being filled with air.

Aerification (n.) The act of becoming aerified, or of changing from a solid or liquid form into an aeriform state; the state of being aeriform.

Aeriform (a.) Having the form or nature of air, or of an elastic fluid; gaseous. Hence fig.: Unreal.

Aerify (v. t.) To infuse air into; to combine air with.

Aerify (v. t.) To change into an aeriform state.

Aero- () The combining form of the Greek word meaning air.

Aerobies (n. pl.) Microorganisms which live in contact with the air and need oxygen for their growth; as the microbacteria which form on the surface of putrefactive fluids.

Aerobiotic (a.) Related to, or of the nature of, aerobies; as, aerobiotic plants, which live only when supplied with free oxygen.

Aerocyst (n.) One of the air cells of algals.

Aerodynamic (a.) Pertaining to the force of air in motion.

Aerodynamics (n.) The science which treats of the air and other gaseous bodies under the action of force, and of their mechanical effects.

Aerognosy (n.) The science which treats of the properties of the air, and of the part it plays in nature.

Aerographer (n.) One versed in aeography: an aerologist.

Aerographic (a.) Alt. of Aerographical

Aerographical (a.) Pertaining to aerography; aerological.

Aerography (n.) A description of the air or atmosphere; aerology.

Aerohydrodynamic (a.) Acting by the force of air and water; as, an aerohydrodynamic wheel.

Aerolite (n.) A stone, or metallic mass, which has fallen to the earth from distant space; a meteorite; a meteoric stone.

Aerolith (n.) Same as A/rolite.

Aerolithology (n.) The science of aerolites.

Aerolitic (a.) Of or pertaining to aerolites; meteoric; as, aerolitic iron.

Aerologic (a.) Alt. of Aerological

Aerological (a.) Of or pertaining to aerology.

Aerologist (n.) One versed in aerology.

Aerology (n.) That department of physics which treats of the atmosphere.

Aeromancy (n.) Divination from the state of the air or from atmospheric substances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.

Aerometer (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the weight or density of air and gases.

Aerometric (a.) Of or pertaining to aerometry; as, aerometric investigations.

Aerometry (n.) The science of measuring the air, including the doctrine of its pressure, elasticity, rarefaction, and condensation; pneumatics.

Aeronaut (n.) An aerial navigator; a balloonist.

Aeronautic (a.) Alt. of Aeronautical

Aeronautical (a.) Pertaining to aeronautics, or aerial sailing.

Aeronautics (n.) The science or art of ascending and sailing in the air, as by means of a balloon; aerial navigation; ballooning.

Aerophobia (n.) Alt. of Aerophoby

Aerophoby (n.) Dread of a current of air.

Aerophyte (n.) A plant growing entirely in the air, and receiving its nourishment from it; an air plant or epiphyte.

Aeroplane (n.) A flying machine, or a small plane for experiments on flying, which floats in the air only when propelled through it.

Aeroscope (n.) An apparatus designed for collecting spores, germs, bacteria, etc., suspended in the air.

Aeroscopy (n.) The observation of the state and variations of the atmosphere.

Aerose (a.) Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy.

Aerosiderite (n.) A mass of meteoric iron.

Aerosphere (n.) The atmosphere.

Aerostat (n.) A balloon.

Aerostat (n.) A balloonist; an aeronaut.

Aerostatic (a.) Alt. of Aerostatical

Aerostatical (a.) Of or pertaining to aerostatics; pneumatic.

Aerostatical (a.) Aeronautic; as, an aerostatic voyage.

Aerostatics (n.) The science that treats of the equilibrium of elastic fluids, or that of bodies sustained in them. Hence it includes aeronautics.

Aerostation (n.) Aerial navigation; the art of raising and guiding balloons in the air.

Aerostation (n.) The science of weighing air; aerostatics.

Aeruginous (a.) Of the nature or color of verdigris, or the rust of copper.

Aerugo (n.) The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris.

Aery (n.) An aerie.

Aery (a.) Aerial; ethereal; incorporeal; visionary.

Aesculapian (a.) Pertaining to Aesculapius or to the healing art; medical; medicinal.

Aesculapius (n.) The god of medicine. Hence, a physician.

Aesculin (n.) Same as Esculin.

Esopian (a.) Of or pertaining to Aesop, or in his manner.

Aesopic (a.) Alt. of Esopic

Esopic (a.) Same as Aesopian.

Aesthesia (n.) Perception by the senses; feeling; -- the opposite of anaesthesia.

Aesthesiometer (n.) Alt. of Esthesiometer

Esthesiometer (n.) An instrument to measure the degree of sensation, by determining at how short a distance two impressions upon the skin can be distinguished, and thus to determine whether the condition of tactile sensibility is normal or altered.

Aesthesis (n.) Sensuous perception.

Aesthesodic (a.) Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves.

Aesthete (n.) One who makes much or overmuch of aesthetics.

Aesthetic (a.) Alt. of Aesthetical

Aesthetical (a.) Of or Pertaining to aesthetics; versed in aesthetics; as, aesthetic studies, emotions, ideas, persons, etc.

Aesthetican (n.) One versed in aesthetics.

Aestheticism (n.) The doctrine of aesthetics; aesthetic principles; devotion to the beautiful in nature and art.

Aesthetics (n.) Alt. of Esthetics

Esthetics (n.) The theory or philosophy of taste; the science of the beautiful in nature and art; esp. that which treats of the expression and embodiment of beauty by art.

Aestho-physiology (n.) The science of sensation in relation to nervous action.

Aestival (a.) Of or belonging to the summer; as, aestival diseases.

Aestivate (v. i.) To spend the summer.

Aestivate (v. i.) To pass the summer in a state of torpor.

Aestivation (n.) The state of torpidity induced by the heat and dryness of summer, as in certain snails; -- opposed to hibernation.

Aestivation (n.) The arrangement of the petals in a flower bud, as to folding, overlapping, etc.; prefloration.

Aestuary (n. & a.) See Estuary.

Aestuous (a.) Glowing; agitated, as with heat.

Aetheogamous (a.) Propagated in an unusual way; cryptogamous.

Aether (n.) See Ether.

Aethiops mineral () Same as Ethiops mineral.

Aethogen (n.) A compound of nitrogen and boro/, which, when heated before the blowpipe, gives a brilliant phosphorescent; boric nitride.

Aethrioscope (n.) An instrument consisting in part of a differential thermometer. It is used for measuring changes of temperature produced by different conditions of the sky, as when clear or clouded.

Aetiological (a.) Pertaining to aetiology; assigning a cause.

Aetiology (n.) The science, doctrine, or demonstration of causes; esp., the investigation of the causes of any disease; the science of the origin and development of things.

Aetiology (n.) The assignment of a cause.

Aetites (n.) See Eaglestone.

Afar (adv.) At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used with from preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I saw him afar off.

Afeard (p. a.) Afraid.

Afer (n.) The southwest wind.

Affability (n.) The quality of being affable; readiness to converse; courteousness in receiving others and in conversation; complaisant behavior.

Affable (a.) Easy to be spoken to or addressed; receiving others kindly and conversing with them in a free and friendly manner; courteous; sociable.

Affable (a.) Gracious; mild; benign.

Affableness (n.) Affability.

Affably (adv.) In an affable manner; courteously.

Affabrous (a.) Executed in a workmanlike manner; ingeniously made.

Affair (n.) That which is done or is to be done; matter; concern; as, a difficult affair to manage; business of any kind, commercial, professional, or public; -- often in the plural. At the head of affairs. Junius.

Affair (n.) Any proceeding or action which it is wished to refer to or characterize vaguely; as, an affair of honor, i. e., a duel; an affair of love, i. e., an intrigue.

Affair (n.) An action or engagement not of sufficient magnitude to be called a battle.

Affair (n.) Action; endeavor.

Affair (n.) A material object (vaguely designated).

Affamish (v. t. & i.) To afflict with, or perish from, hunger.

Affamishment (n.) Starvation.

Affatuate (v. t.) To infatuate.

Affear (v. t.) To frighten.

Affected (imp. & p. p.) of Affect

Affecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affect

Affect (v. t.) To act upon; to produce an effect or change upon.

Affect (v. t.) To influence or move, as the feelings or passions; to touch.

Affect (v. t.) To love; to regard with affection.

Affect (v. t.) To show a fondness for; to like to use or practice; to choose; hence, to frequent habitually.

Affect (v. t.) To dispose or incline.

Affect (v. t.) To aim at; to aspire; to covet.

Affect (v. t.) To tend to by affinity or disposition.

Affect (v. t.) To make a show of; to put on a pretense of; to feign; to assume; as, to affect ignorance.

Affect (v. t.) To assign; to appoint.

Affect (n.) Affection; inclination; passion; feeling; disposition.

Affectation (n.) An attempt to assume or exhibit what is not natural or real; false display; artificial show.

Affectation (n.) A striving after.

Affectation (n.) Fondness; affection.

Affectationist (n.) One who exhibits affectation.

Affected (p. p. & a.) Regarded with affection; beloved.

Affected (p. p. & a.) Inclined; disposed; attached.

Affected (p. p. & a.) Given to false show; assuming or pretending to possess what is not natural or real.

Affected (p. p. & a.) Assumed artificially; not natural.

Affected (p. p. & a.) Made up of terms involving different powers of the unknown quantity; adfected; as, an affected equation.

Affectedly (adv.) In an affected manner; hypocritically; with more show than reality.

Affectedly (adv.) Lovingly; with tender care.

Affectedness (n.) Affectation.

Affecter (n.) One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after.

Affectibility (n.) The quality or state of being affectible.

Affectible (a.) That may be affected.

Affecting (a.) Moving the emotions; fitted to excite the emotions; pathetic; touching; as, an affecting address; an affecting sight.

Affecting (a.) Affected; given to false show.

Affectingly (adv.) In an affecting manner; is a manner to excite emotions.

Affection (n.) The act of affecting or acting upon; the state of being affected.

Affection (n.) An attribute; a quality or property; a condition; a bodily state; as, figure, weight, etc. , are affections of bodies.

Affection (n.) Bent of mind; a feeling or natural impulse or natural impulse acting upon and swaying the mind; any emotion; as, the benevolent affections, esteem, gratitude, etc.; the malevolent affections, hatred, envy, etc.; inclination; disposition; propensity; tendency.

Affection (n.) A settled good will; kind feeling; love; zealous or tender attachment; -- often in the pl. Formerly followed by to, but now more generally by for or towards; as, filial, social, or conjugal affections; to have an affection for or towards children.

Affection (n.) Prejudice; bias.

Affection (n.) Disease; morbid symptom; malady; as, a pulmonary affection.

Affection (n.) The lively representation of any emotion.

Affection (n.) Affectation.

Affection (n.) Passion; violent emotion.

Affectional (a.) Of or pertaining to the affections; as, affectional impulses; an affectional nature.

Affectionate (a.) Having affection or warm regard; loving; fond; as, an affectionate brother.

Affectionate (a.) Kindly inclined; zealous.

Affectionate (a.) Proceeding from affection; indicating love; tender; as, the affectionate care of a parent; affectionate countenance, message, language.

Affectionate (a.) Strongly inclined; -- with to.

Affectionated (a.) Disposed; inclined.

Affectionately (adv.) With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly.

Affectionateness (n.) The quality of being affectionate; fondness; affection.

Affectioned (a.) Disposed.

Affectioned (a.) Affected; conceited.

Affective (a.) Tending to affect; affecting.

Affective (a.) Pertaining to or exciting emotion; affectional; emotional.

Affectively (adv.) In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally.

Affectuous (a.) Full of passion or emotion; earnest.

Affeer (v. t.) To confirm; to assure.

Affeer (v. t.) To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, to a certain and reasonable sum.

Affeerer (n.) Alt. of Affeeror

Affeeror (n.) One who affeers.

Affeerment (n.) The act of affeering.

Afferent (a.) Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed to efferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which convey sensations from the external organs to the brain.

Affettuoso (adv.) With feeling.

Affiance (n.) Plighted faith; marriage contract or promise.

Affiance (n.) Trust; reliance; faith; confidence.

Affianced (imp. / p. p.) of Affiance

Affiancing (p. pr. / vb. n.) of Affiance

Affiance (v. t.) To betroth; to pledge one's faith to for marriage, or solemnly promise (one's self or another) in marriage.

Affiance (v. t.) To assure by promise.

Affiancer (n.) One who makes a contract of marriage between two persons.

Affiant (n.) One who makes an affidavit.

Affidavit (n.) A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signed and made upon oath before an authorized magistrate.

Affile (v. t.) To polish.

Affiliable (a.) Capable of being affiliated to or on, or connected with in origin.

Affiliated (imp. & p. p.) of Affiliate

Affiliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affiliate

Affiliate (v. t.) To adopt; to receive into a family as a son; hence, to bring or receive into close connection; to ally.

Affiliate (v. t.) To fix the paternity of; -- said of an illegitimate child; as, to affiliate the child to (or on or upon) one man rather than another.

Affiliate (v. t.) To connect in the way of descent; to trace origin to.

Affiliate (v. t.) To attach (to) or unite (with); to receive into a society as a member, and initiate into its mysteries, plans, etc.; -- followed by to or with.

Affiliate (v. i.) To connect or associate one's self; -- followed by with; as, they affiliate with no party.

Affiliation (n.) Adoption; association or reception as a member in or of the same family or society.

Affiliation (n.) The establishment or ascertaining of parentage; the assignment of a child, as a bastard, to its father; filiation.

Affiliation (n.) Connection in the way of descent.

Affinal (a.) Related by marriage; from the same source.

Affine (v. t.) To refine.

Affined (a.) Joined in affinity or by any tie.

Affinitative (a.) Of the nature of affinity.

Affinitive (a.) Closely connected, as by affinity.

Affinities (pl. ) of Affinity

Affinity (n.) Relationship by marriage (as between a husband and his wife's blood relations, or between a wife and her husband's blood relations); -- in contradistinction to consanguinity, or relationship by blood; -- followed by with, to, or between.

Affinity (n.) Kinship generally; close agreement; relation; conformity; resemblance; connection; as, the affinity of sounds, of colors, or of languages.

Affinity (n.) Companionship; acquaintance.

Affinity (n.) That attraction which takes place, at an insensible distance, between the heterogeneous particles of bodies, and unites them to form chemical compounds; chemism; chemical or elective affinity or attraction.

Affinity (n.) A relation between species or highe/ groups dependent on resemblance in the whole plan of structure, and indicating community of origin.

Affinity (n.) A superior spiritual relationship or attraction held to exist sometimes between persons, esp. persons of the opposite sex; also, the man or woman who exerts such psychical or spiritual attraction.

Affirmed (imp. & p. p.) of Affirm

Affirming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affirm

Affirm (v. t.) to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, brought before an appellate court for review.

Affirm (v. t.) To assert positively; to tell with confidence; to aver; to maintain as true; -- opposed to deny.

Affirm (v. t.) To declare, as a fact, solemnly, under judicial sanction. See Affirmation, 4.

Affirm (v. i.) To declare or assert positively.

Affirm (v. i.) To make a solemn declaration, before an authorized magistrate or tribunal, under the penalties of perjury; to testify by affirmation.

Affirmable (a.) Capable of being affirmed, asserted, or declared; -- followed by of; as, an attribute affirmable of every just man.

Affirmance (n.) Confirmation; ratification; confirmation of a voidable act.

Affirmance (n.) A strong declaration; affirmation.

Affirmant (n.) One who affirms or asserts.

Affirmant (n.) One who affirms, instead of taking an oath.

Affirmation (n.) Confirmation of anything established; ratification; as, the affirmation of a law.

Affirmation (n.) The act of affirming or asserting as true; assertion; -- opposed to negation or denial.

Affirmation (n.) That which is asserted; an assertion; a positive statement; an averment; as, an affirmation, by the vender, of title to property sold, or of its quality.

Affirmation (n.) A solemn declaration made under the penalties of perjury, by persons who conscientiously decline taking an oath, which declaration is in law equivalent to an oath.

Affirmative (a.) Confirmative; ratifying; as, an act affirmative of common law.

Affirmative (a.) That affirms; asserting that the fact is so; declaratory of what exists; answering yes to a question; -- opposed to negative; as, an affirmative answer; an affirmative vote.

Affirmative (a.) Positive; dogmatic.

Affirmative (a.) Expressing the agreement of the two terms of a proposition.

Affirmative (a.) Positive; -- a term applied to quantities which are to be added, and opposed to negative, or such as are to be subtracted.

Affirmative (n.) That which affirms as opposed to that which denies; an affirmative proposition; that side of question which affirms or maintains the proposition stated; -- opposed to negative; as, there were forty votes in the affirmative, and ten in the negative.

Affirmative (n.) A word or phrase expressing affirmation or assent; as, yes, that is so, etc.

Affirmatively (adv.) In an affirmative manner; on the affirmative side of a question; in the affirmative; -- opposed to negatively.

Affirmatory (a.) Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative.

Affirmer (n.) One who affirms.

Affixed (imp. & p. p.) of Affix

Affixing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affix

Affix (v. t.) To subjoin, annex, or add at the close or end; to append to; to fix to any part of; as, to affix a syllable to a word; to affix a seal to an instrument; to affix one's name to a writing.

Affix (v. t.) To fix or fasten in any way; to attach physically.

Affix (v. t.) To attach, unite, or connect with; as, names affixed to ideas, or ideas affixed to things; to affix a stigma to a person; to affix ridicule or blame to any one.

Affix (v. t.) To fix or fasten figuratively; -- with on or upon; as, eyes affixed upon the ground.

Affixes (pl. ) of Affix

Affix (n.) That which is affixed; an appendage; esp. one or more letters or syllables added at the end of a word; a suffix; a postfix.

Affixion (n.) Affixture.

Affixture (n.) The act of affixing, or the state of being affixed; attachment.

Afflation (n.) A blowing or breathing on; inspiration.

Afflatus (n.) A breath or blast of wind.

Afflatus (n.) A divine impartation of knowledge; supernatural impulse; inspiration.

Afflicted (imp. & p. p.) of Afflict

Afflicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Afflict

Afflict (v. t.) To strike or cast down; to overthrow.

Afflict (v. t.) To inflict some great injury or hurt upon, causing continued pain or mental distress; to trouble grievously; to torment.

Afflict (v. t.) To make low or humble.

Afflict (p. p. & a.) Afflicted.

Afflictedness (n.) The state of being afflicted; affliction.

Afflicter (n.) One who afflicts.

Afflicting (a.) Grievously painful; distressing; afflictive; as, an afflicting event. -- Af*flicting*ly, adv.

Affliction (n.) The cause of continued pain of body or mind, as sickness, losses, etc.; an instance of grievous distress; a pain or grief.

Affliction (n.) The state of being afflicted; a state of pain, distress, or grief.

Afflictionless (a.) Free from affliction.

Afflictive (a.) Giving pain; causing continued or repeated pain or grief; distressing.

Afflictively (adv.) In an afflictive manner.

Affluence (n.) A flowing to or towards; a concourse; an influx.

Affluence (n.) An abundant supply, as of thought, words, feelings, etc.; profusion; also, abundance of property; wealth.

Affluency (n.) Affluence.

Affluent (a.) Flowing to; flowing abundantly.

Affluent (a.) Abundant; copious; plenteous; hence, wealthy; abounding in goods or riches.

Affluent (n.) A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; a tributary stream.

Affluently (adv.) Abundantly; copiously.

Affluentness (n.) Great plenty.

Afflux (n.) A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of blood to the head.

Affluxion (n.) The act of flowing towards; afflux.

Affodill (n.) Asphodel.

Afforce (v. t.) To reenforce; to strengthen.

Afforcement (n.) A fortress; a fortification for defense.

Afforcement (n.) A reenforcement; a strengthening.

Afforciament (n.) See Afforcement.

Afforded (imp. & p. p.) of Afford

Affording (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Afford

Afford (v. t.) To give forth; to supply, yield, or produce as the natural result, fruit, or issue; as, grapes afford wine; olives afford oil; the earth affords fruit; the sea affords an abundant supply of fish.

Afford (v. t.) To give, grant, or confer, with a remoter reference to its being the natural result; to provide; to furnish; as, a good life affords consolation in old age.

Afford (v. t.) To offer, provide, or supply, as in selling, granting, expending, with profit, or without loss or too great injury; as, A affords his goods cheaper than B; a man can afford a sum yearly in charity.

Afford (v. t.) To incur, stand, or bear without serious detriment, as an act which might under other circumstances be injurious; -- with an auxiliary, as can, could, might, etc.; to be able or rich enough.

Affordable (a.) That may be afforded.

Affordment (n.) Anything given as a help; bestowal.

Afforest (v. t.) To convert into a forest; as, to afforest a tract of country.

Afforestation (n.) The act of converting into forest or woodland.

Afformative (n.) An affix.

Affranchise (v. t.) To make free; to enfranchise.

Affranchisement (n.) The act of making free; enfranchisement.

Affrap (v. t. & i.) To strike, or strike down.

Affrayed (p. p.) of Affray

Affray (v. t.) To startle from quiet; to alarm.

Affray (v. t.) To frighten; to scare; to frighten away.

Affray (v. t.) The act of suddenly disturbing any one; an assault or attack.

Affray (v. t.) Alarm; terror; fright.

Affray (v. t.) A tumultuous assault or quarrel; a brawl; a fray.

Affray (v. t.) The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to the terror of others.

Affrayer (n.) One engaged in an affray.

Affrayment (n.) Affray.

Affreight (v. t.) To hire, as a ship, for the transportation of goods or freight.

Affreighter (n.) One who hires or charters a ship to convey goods.

Affreightment (n.) The act of hiring, or the contract for the use of, a vessel, or some part of it, to convey cargo.

Affret (n.) A furious onset or attack.

Affriction (n.) The act of rubbing against.

Affriended (p. p.) Made friends; reconciled.

Affrighted (imp. & p. p.) of Affright

Affrighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affright

Affright (v. t.) To impress with sudden fear; to frighten; to alarm.

Affright (p. a.) Affrighted.

Affright (n.) Sudden and great fear; terror. It expresses a stronger impression than fear, or apprehension, perhaps less than terror.

Affright (n.) The act of frightening; also, a cause of terror; an object of dread.

Affrightedly (adv.) With fright.

Affrighten (v. t.) To frighten.

Affrighter (n.) One who frightens.

Affrightful (a.) Terrifying; frightful.

Affrightment (n.) Affright; the state of being frightened; sudden fear or alarm.

Affronted (imp. & p. p.) of Affront

Affronting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affront

Affront (v. t.) To front; to face in position; to meet or encounter face to face.

Affront (v. t.) To face in defiance; to confront; as, to affront death; hence, to meet in hostile encounter.

Affront (v. t.) To offend by some manifestation of disrespect; to insult to the face by demeanor or language; to treat with marked incivility.

Affront (n.) An encounter either friendly or hostile.

Affront (n.) Contemptuous or rude treatment which excites or justifies resentment; marked disrespect; a purposed indignity; insult.

Affront (n.) An offense to one's self-respect; shame.

Affronte (a.) Face to face, or front to front; facing.

Affrontedly (adv.) Shamelessly.

Affrontee (n.) One who receives an affront.

Affronter (n.) One who affronts, or insults to the face.

Affrontingly (adv.) In an affronting manner.

Affrontive (a.) Tending to affront or offend; offensive; abusive.

Affrontiveness (n.) The quality that gives an affront or offense.

Affused (imp. & p. p.) of Affuse

Affusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affuse

Affuse (v. t.) To pour out or upon.

Affusion (n.) The act of pouring upon, or sprinkling with a liquid, as water upon a child in baptism.

Affusion (n.) The act of pouring water or other fluid on the whole or a part of the body, as a remedy in disease.

Affied (imp. & p. p.) of Affy

Affying (p. pr.) of Affy

Affy (v. t.) To confide (one's self to, or in); to trust.

Affy (v. t.) To betroth or espouse; to affiance.

Affy (v. t.) To bind in faith.

Affy (v. i.) To trust or confide.

Afghan (a.) Of or pertaining to Afghanistan.

Afghan (n.) A native of Afghanistan.

Afghan (n.) A kind of worsted blanket or wrap.

Afield (adv.) To, in, or on the field.

Afield (adv.) Out of the way; astray.

Afire (adv. & a.) On fire.

Aflame (adv. & a.) Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze.

Aflat (adv.) Level with the ground; flat.

Aflaunt (adv. & a.) In a flaunting state or position.

Aflicker (adv. & a.) In a flickering state.

Afloat (adv. & a.) Borne on the water; floating; on board ship.

Afloat (adv. & a.) Moving; passing from place to place; in general circulation; as, a rumor is afloat.

Afloat (adv. & a.) Unfixed; moving without guide or control; adrift; as, our affairs are all afloat.

Aflow (adv. & a.) Flowing.

Aflush (adv. & a.) In a flushed or blushing state.

Aflush (adv. & a.) On a level.

Aflutter (adv. & a.) In a flutter; agitated.

Afoam (adv. & a.) In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam.

Afoot (adv.) On foot.

Afoot (adv.) Fig.: In motion; in action; astir; in progress.

Afore (adv.) Before.

Afore (adv.) In the fore part of a vessel.

Afore (prep.) Before (in all its senses).

Afore (prep.) Before; in front of; farther forward than; as, afore the windlass.

Aforecited (a.) Named or quoted before.

Aforegoing (a.) Going before; foregoing.

Aforehand (adv.) Beforehand; in anticipation.

Aforehand (a.) Prepared; previously provided; -- opposed to behindhand.

Aforementioned (a.) Previously mentioned; before-mentioned.

Aforenamed (a.) Named before.

Aforesaid (a.) Said before, or in a preceding part; already described or identified.

Aforethought (a.) Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as, malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder.

Aforethought (n.) Premeditation.

Aforetime (adv.) In time past; formerly.

A fortiori () With stronger reason.

Afoul (adv. & a.) In collision; entangled.

Afraid (p. a.) Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.

Afreet (n.) Same as Afrit.

Afresh (adv.) Anew; again; once more; newly.

Afric (a.) African.

Afric (n.) Africa.

African (a.) Of or pertaining to Africa.

African (n.) A native of Africa; also one ethnologically belonging to an African race.

Africander (n.) One born in Africa, the offspring of a white father and a colored mother. Also, and now commonly in Southern Africa, a native born of European settlers.

Africanism (n.) A word, phrase, idiom, or custom peculiar to Africa or Africans.

Africanize (v. t.) To place under the domination of Africans or negroes.

Afrit (n.) Alt. of Afreet

Afrite (n.) Alt. of Afreet

Afreet (n.) A powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant.

Afront (adv.) In front; face to face.

Afront (prep.) In front of.

Aft (adv. & a.) Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft.

After (a.) Next; later in time; subsequent; succeeding; as, an after period of life.

After (a.) Hinder; nearer the rear.

After (a.) To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in the rear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway.

After (prep.) Behind in place; as, men in line one after another.

After (prep.) Below in rank; next to in order.

After (prep.) Later in time; subsequent; as, after supper, after three days. It often precedes a clause. Formerly that was interposed between it and the clause.

After (prep.) Subsequent to and in consequence of; as, after what you have said, I shall be careful.

After (prep.) Subsequent to and notwithstanding; as, after all our advice, you took that course.

After (prep.) Moving toward from behind; following, in search of; in pursuit of.

After (prep.) Denoting the aim or object; concerning; in relation to; as, to look after workmen; to inquire after a friend; to thirst after righteousness.

After (prep.) In imitation of; in conformity with; after the manner of; as, to make a thing after a model; a picture after Rubens; the boy takes after his father.

After (prep.) According to; in accordance with; in conformity with the nature of; as, he acted after his kind.

After (prep.) According to the direction and influence of; in proportion to; befitting.

After (adv.) Subsequently in time or place; behind; afterward; as, he follows after.

Afterbirth (n.) The placenta and membranes with which the fetus is connected, and which come away after delivery.

Aftercast (n.) A throw of dice after the game in ended; hence, anything done too late.

Afterclap (n.) An unexpected subsequent event; something disagreeable happening after an affair is supposed to be at an end.

Aftercrop (n.) A second crop or harvest in the same year.

After damp () An irrespirable gas, remaining after an explosion of fire damp in mines; choke damp. See Carbonic acid.

After-dinner (n.) The time just after dinner.

After-dinner (a.) Following dinner; post-prandial; as, an after-dinner nap.

After-eatage (n.) Aftergrass.

Aftereye (v. t.) To look after.

Aftergame (n.) A second game; hence, a subsequent scheme or expedient.

After-glow (n.) A glow of refulgence in the western sky after sunset.

Aftergrass (n.) The grass that grows after the first crop has been mown; aftermath.

Aftergrowth (n.) A second growth or crop, or (metaphorically) development.

Afterguard (n.) The seaman or seamen stationed on the poop or after part of the ship, to attend the after-sails.

After-image (n.) The impression of a vivid sensation retained by the retina of the eye after the cause has been removed; also extended to impressions left of tones, smells, etc.

Afterings (n. pl.) The last milk drawn in milking; strokings.

Aftermath (n.) A second moving; the grass which grows after the first crop of hay in the same season; rowen.

After-mentioned (a.) Mentioned afterwards; as, persons after-mentioned (in a writing).

Aftermost (a. superl.) Hindmost; -- opposed to foremost.

Aftermost (a. superl.) Nearest the stern; most aft.

Afternoon (n.) The part of the day which follows noon, between noon and evening.

After-note (n.) One of the small notes occur on the unaccented parts of the measure, taking their time from the preceding note.

Afterpains (n. pl.) The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling the afterbirth.

Afterpiece (n.) A piece performed after a play, usually a farce or other small entertainment.

Afterpiece (n.) The heel of a rudder.

After-sails (n.) The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between the mainmast and mizzenmast.

Aftershaft (n.) The hypoptilum.

Aftertaste (n.) A taste which remains in the mouth after eating or drinking.

Afterthought (n.) Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought or expedient.

Afterwards (adv.) Alt. of Afterward

Afterward (adv.) At a later or succeeding time.

Afterwise (a.) Wise after the event; wise or knowing, when it is too late.

After-wit (n.) Wisdom or perception that comes after it can be of use.

After-witted (a.) Characterized by after-wit; slow-witted.

Aftmost (a.) Nearest the stern.

Aftward (adv.) Toward the stern.

Aga (n.) Alt. of Agha

Agha (n.) In Turkey, a commander or chief officer. It is used also as a title of respect.

Again (adv.) In return, back; as, bring us word again.

Again (adv.) Another time; once more; anew.

Again (adv.) Once repeated; -- of quantity; as, as large again, half as much again.

Again (adv.) In any other place.

Again (adv.) On the other hand.

Again (adv.) Moreover; besides; further.

Again (prep.) Alt. of Agains

Agains (prep.) Against; also, towards (in order to meet).

Againbuy (v. t.) To redeem.

Againsay (v. t.) To gainsay.

Against (prep.) Abreast; opposite to; facing; towards; as, against the mouth of a river; -- in this sense often preceded by over.

Against (prep.) From an opposite direction so as to strike or come in contact with; in contact with; upon; as, hail beats against the roof.

Against (prep.) In opposition to, whether the opposition is of sentiment or of action; on the other side; counter to; in contrariety to; hence, adverse to; as, against reason; against law; to run a race against time.

Against (prep.) By of before the time that; in preparation for; so as to be ready for the time when.

Againstand (v. t.) To withstand.

Againward (adv.) Back again.

Agalactia (n.) Alt. of Agalaxy

Agalaxy (n.) Failure of the due secretion of milk after childbirth.

Agalactous (a.) Lacking milk to suckle with.

Agal-agal (n.) Same as Agar-agar.

Agalloch (n.) Alt. of Agallochum

Agallochum (n.) A soft, resinous wood (Aquilaria Agallocha) of highly aromatic smell, burnt by the orientals as a perfume. It is called also agalwood and aloes wood. The name is also given to some other species.

Agalmatolite (n.) A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowish color, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figure stone, and pagodite. It is probably a variety of pinite.

Agama (n.) A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetable substances; also, one of these lizards.

Agamis (pl. ) of Agami

Agami (n.) A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to the cranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breasted trumpeter. Its body is about the size of the pheasant. See Trumpeter.

Agamic (a.) Produced without sexual union; as, agamic or unfertilized eggs.

Agamic (a.) Not having visible organs of reproduction, as flowerless plants; agamous.

Agamically (adv.) In an agamic manner.

Agamist (n.) An unmarried person; also, one opposed to marriage.

Agamogenesis (n.) Reproduction without the union of parents of distinct sexes: asexual reproduction.

Agamogenetic (n.) Reproducing or produced without sexual union.

Agamous (a.) Having no visible sexual organs; asexual.

Agamous (a.) cryptogamous.

Aganglionic (a.) Without ganglia.

Agape (adv. & a.) Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention.

Agapae (pl. ) of Agape

Agape (n.) The love feast of the primitive Christians, being a meal partaken of in connection with the communion.

Agar-agar (n.) A fucus or seaweed much used in the East for soups and jellies; Ceylon moss (Gracilaria lichenoides).

Agaric (n.) A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which the common mushroom is an example.

Agaric (n.) An old name for several species of Polyporus, corky fungi growing on decaying wood.

Agasp (adv. & a.) In a state of gasping.

Agast (v. t.) Alt. of Aghast

Aghast (v. t.) To affright; to terrify.

Agast (p. p. & a.) See Aghast.

Agastric (a.) Having to stomach, or distinct digestive canal, as the tapeworm.

Agate (adv.) On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate.

Agate (n.) A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of quartz, presenting various tints in the same specimen. Its colors are delicately arranged in stripes or bands, or blended in clouds.

Agate (n.) A kind of type, larger than pearl and smaller than nonpareil; in England called ruby.

Agate (n.) A diminutive person; so called in allusion to the small figures cut in agate for rings and seals.

Agate (n.) A tool used by gold-wire drawers, bookbinders, etc.; -- so called from the agate fixed in it for burnishing.

Agatiferous (a.) Containing or producing agates.

Agatine (a.) Pertaining to, or like, agate.

Agatize (v. t.) To convert into agate; to make resemble agate.

Agaty (a.) Of the nature of agate, or containing agate.

Agave (n.) A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceae) of which the chief species is the maguey or century plant (A. Americana), wrongly called Aloe. It is from ten to seventy years, according to climate, in attaining maturity, when it produces a gigantic flower stem, sometimes forty feet in height, and perishes. The fermented juice is the pulque of the Mexicans; distilled, it yields mescal. A strong thread and a tough paper are made from the leaves, and the wood has many uses.

Agazed (p. p.) Gazing with astonishment; amazed.

Age (n.) The whole duration of a being, whether animal, vegetable, or other kind; lifetime.

Age (n.) That part of the duration of a being or a thing which is between its beginning and any given time; as, what is the present age of a man, or of the earth?

Age (n.) The latter part of life; an advanced period of life; seniority; state of being old.

Age (n.) One of the stages of life; as, the age of infancy, of youth, etc.

Age (n.) Mature age; especially, the time of life at which one attains full personal rights and capacities; as, to come of age; he (or she) is of age.

Age (n.) The time of life at which some particular power or capacity is understood to become vested; as, the age of consent; the age of discretion.

Age (n.) A particular period of time in history, as distinguished from others; as, the golden age, the age of Pericles.

Age (n.) A great period in the history of the Earth.

Age (n.) A century; the period of one hundred years.

Age (n.) The people who live at a particular period; hence, a generation.

Age (n.) A long time.

Aged (imp. & p. p.) of Age

Aging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Age

Age (v. i.) To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age; as, he grew fat as he aged.

Age (v. t.) To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to; as, grief ages us.

Aged (a.) Old; having lived long; having lived almost to or beyond the usual time allotted to that species of being; as, an aged man; an aged oak.

Aged (a.) Belonging to old age.

Aged (a.) Having a certain age; at the age of; having lived; as, a man aged forty years.

Agedly (adv.) In the manner of an aged person.

Agedness (n.) The quality of being aged; oldness.

Ageless (a.) Without old age limits of duration; as, fountains of ageless youth.

Agen (adv. & prep.) See Again.

Agencies (pl. ) of Agency

Agency (n.) The faculty of acting or of exerting power; the state of being in action; action; instrumentality.

Agency (n.) The office of an agent, or factor; the relation between a principal and his agent; business of one intrusted with the concerns of another.

Agency (n.) The place of business of am agent.

Agend (n.) See Agendum.

Agenda (pl. ) of Agendum

Agendum (n.) Something to be done; in the pl., a memorandum book.

Agendum (n.) A church service; a ritual or liturgy. [In this sense, usually Agenda.]

Agenesic (a.) Characterized by sterility; infecund.

Agenesis (n.) Any imperfect development of the body, or any anomaly of organization.

Agennesis (n.) Impotence; sterility.

Agent (a.) Acting; -- opposed to patient, or sustaining, action.

Agent (n.) One who exerts power, or has the power to act; an actor.

Agent (n.) One who acts for, or in the place of, another, by authority from him; one intrusted with the business of another; a substitute; a deputy; a factor.

Agent (n.) An active power or cause; that which has the power to produce an effect; as, a physical, chemical, or medicinal agent; as, heat is a powerful agent.

Agential (a.) Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency.

Agentship (n.) Agency.

Ageratum (n.) A genus of plants, one species of which (A. Mexicanum) has lavender-blue flowers in dense clusters.

Aggeneration (n.) The act of producing in addition.

Agger (n.) An earthwork; a mound; a raised work.

Aggerate (v. t.) To heap up.

Aggeration (n.) A heaping up; accumulation; as, aggerations of sand.

Aggerose (a.) In heaps; full of heaps.

Aggest (v. t.) To heap up.

Agglomerated (imp. & p. p.) of Agglomerate

Agglomerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agglomerate

Agglomerate (v. t.) To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass or anything like a mass.

Agglomerate (v. i.) To collect in a mass.

Agglomerate (a.) Alt. of Agglomerated

Agglomerated (a.) Collected into a ball, heap, or mass.

Agglomerated (a.) Collected into a rounded head of flowers.

Agglomerate (n.) A collection or mass.

Agglomerate (n.) A mass of angular volcanic fragments united by heat; -- distinguished from conglomerate.

Agglomeration (n.) The act or process of collecting in a mass; a heaping together.

Agglomeration (n.) State of being collected in a mass; a mass; cluster.

Agglomerative (a.) Having a tendency to gather together, or to make collections.

Agglutinant (a.) Uniting, as glue; causing, or tending to cause, adhesion.

Agglutinant (n.) Any viscous substance which causes bodies or parts to adhere.

Agglutinated (imp. & p. p.) of Agglutinate

Agglutinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agglutinate

Agglutinate (v. t.) To unite, or cause to adhere, as with glue or other viscous substance; to unite by causing an adhesion of substances.

Agglutinate (a.) United with glue or as with glue; cemented together.

Agglutinate (a.) Consisting of root words combined but not materially altered as to form or meaning; as, agglutinate forms, languages, etc. See Agglutination, 2.

Agglutination (n.) The act of uniting by glue or other tenacious substance; the state of being thus united; adhesion of parts.

Agglutination (n.) Combination in which root words are united with little or no change of form or loss of meaning. See Agglutinative, 2.

Agglutinative (a.) Pertaining to agglutination; tending to unite, or having power to cause adhesion; adhesive.

Agglutinative (a.) Formed or characterized by agglutination, as a language or a compound.

Aggrace (v. t.) To favor; to grace.

Aggrace (n.) Grace; favor.

Aggrandizable (a.) Capable of being aggrandized.

Aggrandization (n.) Aggrandizement.

Aggrandized (imp. & p. p.) of Aggrandize

Aggrandizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggrandize

Aggrandize (v. t.) To make great; to enlarge; to increase; as, to aggrandize our conceptions, authority, distress.

Aggrandize (v. t.) To make great or greater in power, rank, honor, or wealth; -- applied to persons, countries, etc.

Aggrandize (v. t.) To make appear great or greater; to exalt.

Aggrandize (v. i.) To increase or become great.

Aggrandizement (n.) The act of aggrandizing, or the state of being aggrandized or exalted in power, rank, honor, or wealth; exaltation; enlargement; as, the emperor seeks only the aggrandizement of his own family.

Aggrandizer (n.) One who aggrandizes, or makes great.

Aggrate (a.) To please.

Aggravated (imp. & p. p.) of Aggravate

Aggravating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggravate

Aggravate (v. t.) To make heavy or heavier; to add to; to increase.

Aggravate (v. t.) To make worse, or more severe; to render less tolerable or less excusable; to make more offensive; to enhance; to intensify.

Aggravate (v. t.) To give coloring to in description; to exaggerate; as, to aggravate circumstances.

Aggravate (v. t.) To exasperate; to provoke; to irritate.

Aggravating (a.) Making worse or more heinous; as, aggravating circumstances.

Aggravating (a.) Exasperating; provoking; irritating.

Aggravatingly (adv.) In an aggravating manner.

Aggravation (n.) The act of aggravating, or making worse; -- used of evils, natural or moral; the act of increasing in severity or heinousness; something additional to a crime or wrong and enhancing its guilt or injurious consequences.

Aggravation (n.) Exaggerated representation.

Aggravation (n.) An extrinsic circumstance or accident which increases the guilt of a crime or the misery of a calamity.

Aggravation (n.) Provocation; irritation.

Aggravative (a.) Tending to aggravate.

Aggravative (n.) That which aggravates.

Aggregated (imp. & p. p.) of Aggregate

Aggregating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggregate

Aggregate (v. t.) To bring together; to collect into a mass or sum. The aggregated soil.

Aggregate (v. t.) To add or unite, as, a person, to an association.

Aggregate (v. t.) To amount in the aggregate to; as, ten loads, aggregating five hundred bushels.

Aggregate (a.) Formed by a collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum; collective.

Aggregate (a.) Formed into clusters or groups of lobules; as, aggregate glands.

Aggregate (a.) Composed of several florets within a common involucre, as in the daisy; or of several carpels formed from one flower, as in the raspberry.

Aggregate (a.) Having the several component parts adherent to each other only to such a degree as to be separable by mechanical means.

Aggregate (a.) United into a common organized mass; -- said of certain compound animals.

Aggregate (n.) A mass, assemblage, or sum of particulars; as, a house is an aggregate of stone, brick, timber, etc.

Aggregate (n.) A mass formed by the union of homogeneous particles; -- in distinction from a compound, formed by the union of heterogeneous particles.

Aggregately (adv.) Collectively; in mass.

Aggregation (n.) The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated; collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; an aggregate.

Aggregative (a.) Taken together; collective.

Aggregative (a.) Gregarious; social.

Aggregator (n.) One who aggregates.

Aggrege (v. t.) To make heavy; to aggravate.

Aggressed (imp. & p. p.) of Aggress

Aggressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggress

Aggress (v. i.) To commit the first act of hostility or offense; to begin a quarrel or controversy; to make an attack; -- with on.

Aggress (v. t.) To set upon; to attack.

Aggress (n.) Aggression.

Aggression (n.) The first attack, or act of hostility; the first act of injury, or first act leading to a war or a controversy; unprovoked attack; assault; as, a war of aggression. Aggressions of power.

Aggressive (a.) Tending or disposed to aggress; characterized by aggression; making assaults; unjustly attacking; as, an aggressive policy, war, person, nation.

Aggressor (n.) The person who first attacks or makes an aggression; he who begins hostility or a quarrel; an assailant.

Aggrievance (n.) Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance.

Aggrieved (imp. & p. p.) of Aggrieve

Aggrieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggrieve

Aggrieve (v. t.) To give pain or sorrow to; to afflict; hence, to oppress or injure in one's rights; to bear heavily upon; -- now commonly used in the passive TO be aggrieved.

Aggrieve (v. i.) To grieve; to lament.

Aggrouped (imp. & p. p.) of Aggroup

Aggrouping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggroup

Aggroup (v. t.) To bring together in a group; to group.

Aggroupment (n.) Arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.

Aggry (a.) Alt. of Aggri

Aggri (a.) Applied to a kind of variegated glass beads of ancient manufacture; as, aggry beads are found in Ashantee and Fantee in Africa.

Aghast (v. t.) See Agast, v. t.

Aghast (a & p. p.) Terrified; struck with amazement; showing signs of terror or horror.

Agible (a.) Possible to be done; practicable.

Agile (a.) Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or ready to move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue.

Agilely (adv.) In an agile manner; nimbly.

Agileness (n.) Agility; nimbleness.

Agility (n.) The quality of being agile; the power of moving the limbs quickly and easily; nimbleness; activity; quickness of motion; as, strength and agility of body.

Agility (n.) Activity; powerful agency.

Agios (pl. ) of Agio

Agio (n.) The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it is given in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount on foreign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio.

Agiotage (n.) Exchange business; also, stockjobbing; the maneuvers of speculators to raise or lower the price of stocks or public funds.

Agist (v. t.) To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- used originally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, and collecting the money for the same.

Agistator (n.) See Agister.

Agister (n.) Alt. of Agistor

Agistor (n.) Formerly, an officer of the king's forest, who had the care of cattle agisted, and collected the money for the same; -- hence called gisttaker, which in England is corrupted into guest-taker.

Agistor (n.) Now, one who agists or takes in cattle to pasture at a certain rate; a pasturer.

Agistment (n.) Formerly, the taking and feeding of other men's cattle in the king's forests.

Agistment (n.) The taking in by any one of other men's cattle to graze at a certain rate.

Agistment (n.) The price paid for such feeding.

Agistment (n.) A charge or rate against lands; as, an agistment of sea banks, i. e., charge for banks or dikes.

Agitable (a.) Capable of being agitated, or easily moved.

Agitated (imp. & p. p.) of Agitate

Agitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agitate

Agitate (v. t.) To move with a violent, irregular action; as, the wind agitates the sea; to agitate water in a vessel.

Agitate (v. t.) To move or actuate.

Agitate (v. t.) To stir up; to disturb or excite; to perturb; as, he was greatly agitated.

Agitate (v. t.) To discuss with great earnestness; to debate; as, a controversy hotly agitated.

Agitate (v. t.) To revolve in the mind, or view in all its aspects; to contrive busily; to devise; to plot; as, politicians agitate desperate designs.

Agitatedly (adv.) In an agitated manner.

Agitation (n.) The act of agitating, or the state of being agitated; the state of being moved with violence, or with irregular action; commotion; as, the sea after a storm is in agitation.

Agitation (n.) A stirring up or arousing; disturbance of tranquillity; disturbance of mind which shows itself by physical excitement; perturbation; as, to cause any one agitation.

Agitation (n.) Excitement of public feeling by discussion, appeals, etc.; as, the antislavery agitation; labor agitation.

Agitation (n.) Examination or consideration of a subject in controversy, or of a plan proposed for adoption; earnest discussion; debate.

Agitative (a.) Tending to agitate.

Agitato (a.) Sung or played in a restless, hurried, and spasmodic manner.

Agitator (n.) One who agitates; one who stirs up or excites others; as, political reformers and agitators.

Agitator (n.) One of a body of men appointed by the army, in Cromwell's time, to look after their interests; -- called also adjutators.

Agitator (n.) An implement for shaking or mixing.

Agleam (adv. & a.) Gleaming; as, faces agleam.

Aglet (n.) Alt. of Aiglet

Aiglet (n.) A tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used in dress. They were sometimes formed into small images. Hence, aglet baby (Shak.), an aglet image.

Aiglet (n.) A round white staylace.

Agley (adv.) Aside; askew.

Aglimmer (adv. & a.) In a glimmering state.

Aglitter (adv. & a.) Glittering; in a glitter.

Aglossal (a.) Without tongue; tongueless.

Aglow (adv. & a.) In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow.

Aglutition (n.) Inability to swallow.

Agminal (a.) Pertaining to an army marching, or to a train.

Agminate (a.) Alt. of Agminated

Agminated (a.) Grouped together; as, the agminated glands of Peyer in the small intestine.

Agnail (n.) A corn on the toe or foot.

Agnail (n.) An inflammation or sore under or around the nail; also, a hangnail.

Agnate (a.) Related or akin by the father's side; also, sprung from the same male ancestor.

Agnate (a.) Allied; akin.

Agnate (n.) A relative whose relationship can be traced exclusively through males.

Agnatic (a.) Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors.

Agnation (n.) Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished from cognation.

Agnition (n.) Acknowledgment.

Agnize (v. t.) To recognize; to acknowledge.

Agnoiology (n.) The doctrine concerning those things of which we are necessarily ignorant.

Agnomen (n.) An additional or fourth name given by the Romans, on account of some remarkable exploit or event; as, Publius Caius Scipio Africanus.

Agnomen (n.) An additional name, or an epithet appended to a name; as, Aristides the Just.

Agnominate (v. t.) To name.

Agnomination (n.) A surname.

Agnomination (n.) Paronomasia; also, alliteration; annomination.

Agnostic (a.) Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to or involving agnosticism.

Agnostic (n.) One who professes ignorance, or denies that we have any knowledge, save of phenomena; one who supports agnosticism, neither affirming nor denying the existence of a personal Deity, a future life, etc.

Agnosticism (n.) That doctrine which, professing ignorance, neither asserts nor denies.

Agnosticism (n.) The doctrine that the existence of a personal Deity, an unseen world, etc., can be neither proved nor disproved, because of the necessary limits of the human mind (as sometimes charged upon Hamilton and Mansel), or because of the insufficiency of the evidence furnished by physical and physical data, to warrant a positive conclusion (as taught by the school of Herbert Spencer); -- opposed alike dogmatic skepticism and to dogmatic theism.

Agnuses (pl. ) of Agnus

Agni (pl. ) of Agnus

Agnus (n.) Agnus Dei.

Agnus castus () A species of Vitex (V. agnus castus); the chaste tree.

Agnus Dei () A figure of a lamb bearing a cross or flag.

Agnus Dei () A cake of wax stamped with such a figure. It is made from the remains of the paschal candles and blessed by the Pope.

Agnus Dei () A triple prayer in the sacrifice of the Mass, beginning with the words Agnus Dei.

Ago (a. & adv.) Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago.

Agog (a. & adv.) In eager desire; eager; astir.

Agoing (adv.) In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing.

Agones (pl. ) of Agon

Agon (n.) A contest for a prize at the public games.

Agone (a. & adv.) Ago.

Agone (n.) Agonic line.

Agonic (a.) Not forming an angle.

Agonism (n.) Contention for a prize; a contest.

Agonist (n.) One who contends for the prize in public games.

Agonistic (a.) Alt. of Agonistical

Agonistical (a.) Pertaining to violent contests, bodily or mental; pertaining to athletic or polemic feats; athletic; combative; hence, strained; unnatural.

Agonistically (adv.) In an agonistic manner.

Agonistics (n.) The science of athletic combats, or contests in public games.

Agonized (imp. & p. p.) of Agonize

Agonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agonize

Agonize (v. i.) To writhe with agony; to suffer violent anguish.

Agonize (v. i.) To struggle; to wrestle; to strive desperately.

Agonize (v. t.) To cause to suffer agony; to subject to extreme pain; to torture.

Agonizingly (adv.) With extreme anguish or desperate struggles.

Agonothete (n.) An officer who presided over the great public games in Greece.

Agonothetic (a.) Pertaining to the office of an agonothete.

Agonies (pl. ) of Agony

Agony (n.) Violent contest or striving.

Agony (n.) Pain so extreme as to cause writhing or contortions of the body, similar to those made in the athletic contests in Greece; and hence, extreme pain of mind or body; anguish; paroxysm of grief; specifically, the sufferings of Christ in the garden of Gethsemane.

Agony (n.) Paroxysm of joy; keen emotion.

Agony (n.) The last struggle of life; death struggle.

Agood (adv.) In earnest; heartily.

Agora (n.) An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially the market place, in an ancient Greek city.

Agouara (n.) The crab-eating raccoon (Procyon cancrivorus), found in the tropical parts of America.

Agouta (n.) A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied to the moles, found only in Hayti.

Agouti (n.) Alt. of Agouty

Agouty (n.) A rodent of the genus Dasyprocta, about the size of a rabbit, peculiar to South America and the West Indies. The most common species is the Dasyprocta agouti.

Agrace (n. & v.) See Aggrace.

Agraffe (n.) A hook or clasp.

Agraffe (n.) A hook, eyelet, or other device by which a piano wire is so held as to limit the vibration.

Agrammatist (n.) A illiterate person.

Agraphia (n.) The absence or loss of the power of expressing ideas by written signs. It is one form of aphasia.

Agraphic (a.) Characterized by agraphia.

Agrappes (n. pl.) Hooks and eyes for armor, etc.

Agrarian (a.) Pertaining to fields, or lands, or their tenure; esp., relating to an equal or equitable division of lands; as, the agrarian laws of Rome, which distributed the conquered and other public lands among citizens.

Agrarian (a.) Wild; -- said of plants growing in the fields.

Agrarian (n.) One in favor of an equal division of landed property.

Agrarian (n.) An agrarian law.

Agrarianism (n.) An equal or equitable division of landed property; the principles or acts of those who favor a redistribution of land.

Agrarianize (v. t.) To distribute according to, or to imbue with, the principles of agrarianism.

Agre (adv.) Alt. of Agree

Agree (adv.) In good part; kindly.

Agreed (imp. & p. p.) of Agree

Agreeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agree

Agree (v. i.) To harmonize in opinion, statement, or action; to be in unison or concord; to be or become united or consistent; to concur; as, all parties agree in the expediency of the law.

Agree (v. i.) To yield assent; to accede; -- followed by to; as, to agree to an offer, or to opinion.

Agree (v. i.) To make a stipulation by way of settling differences or determining a price; to exchange promises; to come to terms or to a common resolve; to promise.

Agree (v. i.) To be conformable; to resemble; to coincide; to correspond; as, the picture does not agree with the original; the two scales agree exactly.

Agree (v. i.) To suit or be adapted in its effects; to do well; as, the same food does not agree with every constitution.

Agree (v. i.) To correspond in gender, number, case, or person.

Agree (v. t.) To make harmonious; to reconcile or make friends.

Agree (v. t.) To admit, or come to one mind concerning; to settle; to arrange; as, to agree the fact; to agree differences.

Agreeability (n.) Easiness of disposition.

Agreeability (n.) The quality of being, or making one's self, agreeable; agreeableness.

Agreeable (a.) Pleasing, either to the mind or senses; pleasant; grateful; as, agreeable manners or remarks; an agreeable person; fruit agreeable to the taste.

Agreeable (a.) Willing; ready to agree or consent.

Agreeable (a.) Agreeing or suitable; conformable; correspondent; concordant; adapted; -- followed by to, rarely by with.

Agreeable (a.) In pursuance, conformity, or accordance; -- in this sense used adverbially for agreeably; as, agreeable to the order of the day, the House took up the report.

Agreeableness (n.) The quality of being agreeable or pleasing; that quality which gives satisfaction or moderate pleasure to the mind or senses.

Agreeableness (n.) The quality of being agreeable or suitable; suitableness or conformity; consistency.

Agreeableness (n.) Resemblance; concordance; harmony; -- with to or between.

Agreeably (adv.) In an agreeably manner; in a manner to give pleasure; pleasingly.

Agreeably (adv.) In accordance; suitably; consistently; conformably; -- followed by to and rarely by with. See Agreeable, 4.

Agreeably (adv.) Alike; similarly.

Agreeingly (adv.) In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably.

Agreement (n.) State of agreeing; harmony of opinion, statement, action, or character; concurrence; concord; conformity; as, a good agreement subsists among the members of the council.

Agreement (n.) Concord or correspondence of one word with another in gender, number, case, or person.

Agreement (n.) A concurrence in an engagement that something shall be done or omitted; an exchange of promises; mutual understanding, arrangement, or stipulation; a contract.

Agreement (n.) The language, oral or written, embodying reciprocal promises.

Agreer (n.) One who agrees.

Agrestic (a.) Pertaining to fields or the country, in opposition to the city; rural; rustic; unpolished; uncouth.

Agrestical (a.) Agrestic.

Agricolation (n.) Agriculture.

Agricolist (n.) A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist.

Agricultor (n.) An agriculturist; a farmer.

Agricultural (a.) Of or pertaining to agriculture; connected with, or engaged in, tillage; as, the agricultural class; agricultural implements, wages, etc.

Agriculturalist (n.) An agriculturist (which is the preferred form.)

Agriculture (n.) The art or science of cultivating the ground, including the harvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of live stock; tillage; husbandry; farming.

Agriculturism (n.) Agriculture.

Agriculturist (n.) One engaged or skilled in agriculture; a husbandman.

Agrief (adv.) In grief; amiss.

Agrimony (n.) A genus of plants of the Rose family.

Agrimony (n.) The name is also given to various other plants; as, hemp agrimony (Eupatorium cannabinum); water agrimony (Bidens).

Agrin (adv. & a.) In the act of grinning.

Agriologist (n.) One versed or engaged in agriology.

Agriology (n.) Description or comparative study of the customs of savage or uncivilized tribes.

Agrise (v. i.) To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear.

Agrise (v. t.) To shudder at; to abhor; to dread; to loathe.

Agrise (v. t.) To terrify; to affright.

Agrom (n.) A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the East Indies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves.

Agronomic () Alt. of Agronomical

Agronomical () Pertaining to agronomy, of the management of farms.

Agronomics (n.) The science of the distribution and management of land.

Agronomist (n.) One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy.

Agronomy (n.) The management of land; rural economy; agriculture.

Agrope (adv. & a.) In the act of groping.

Agrostis (n.) A genus of grasses, including species called in common language bent grass. Some of them, as redtop (Agrostis vulgaris), are valuable pasture grasses.

Agrostographic (a.) Alt. of Agrostographical

Agrostographical (a.) Pertaining to agrostography.

Agrostography (n.) A description of the grasses.

Agrostologic (a.) Alt. of Agrostological

Agrostological (a.) Pertaining to agrostology.

Agrostologist (n.) One skilled in agrostology.

Agrostology (n.) That part of botany which treats of the grasses.

Aground (adv. & a.) On the ground; stranded; -- a nautical term applied to a ship when its bottom lodges on the ground.

Agroupment (n.) See Aggroupment.

Agrypnotic (n.) Anything which prevents sleep, or produces wakefulness, as strong tea or coffee.

Aguardiente (n.) A inferior brandy of Spain and Portugal.

Aguardiente (n.) A strong alcoholic drink, especially pulque.

Ague (n.) An acute fever.

Ague (n.) An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits.

Ague (n.) The cold fit or rigor of the intermittent fever; as, fever and ague.

Ague (n.) A chill, or state of shaking, as with cold.

Agued (imp. & p. p.) of Ague

Ague (v. t.) To strike with an ague, or with a cold fit.

Aguilt (v. t.) To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong.

Aguise (n.) Dress.

Aguise (v. t.) To dress; to attire; to adorn.

Aguish (a.) Having the qualities of an ague; somewhat cold or shivering; chilly; shaky.

Aguish (a.) Productive of, or affected by, ague; as, the aguish districts of England.

Agush (adv. & a.) In a gushing state.

Agynous (a.) Without female organs; male.

Ah (interj.) An exclamation, expressive of surprise, pity, complaint, entreaty, contempt, threatening, delight, triumph, etc., according to the manner of utterance.

Aha (interj.) An exclamation expressing, by different intonations, triumph, mixed with derision or irony, or simple surprise.

Aha (n.) A sunk fence. See Ha-ha.

Ahead (adv.) In or to the front; in advance; onward.

Ahead (adv.) Headlong; without restraint.

Aheap (adv.) In a heap; huddled together.

Aheight (adv.) Aloft; on high.

Ahem (interj.) An exclamation to call one's attention; hem.

Ahey (interj.) Hey; ho.

Ahigh (adv.) On high.

Ahold (adv.) Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold.

Ahorseback (adv.) On horseback.

Ahoy (interj.) A term used in hailing; as, Ship ahoy.

Ahriman (n.) The Evil Principle or Being of the ancient Persians; the Prince of Darkness as opposer to Ormuzd, the King of Light.

Ahu (n.) The Asiatic gazelle.

Ahull (adv.) With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied to ships in a storm. See Hull, n.

Ahungered (a.) Pinched with hunger; very hungry.

Ais (pl. ) of Ai

Ai (n.) The three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) of South America. See Sloth.

Aiblins (adv.) Alt. of Ablins

Ablins (adv.) Perhaps; possibly.

Aich's metal () A kind of gun metal, containing copper, zinc, and iron, but no tin.

Aided (imp. & p. p.) of Aid

Aiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aid

Aid (v. t.) To support, either by furnishing strength or means in cooperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; to help; to assist.

Aid (v. t.) Help; succor; assistance; relief.

Aid (v. t.) The person or thing that promotes or helps in something done; a helper; an assistant.

Aid (v. t.) A subsidy granted to the king by Parliament; also, an exchequer loan.

Aid (v. t.) A pecuniary tribute paid by a vassal to his lord on special occasions.

Aid (v. t.) An aid-de-camp, so called by abbreviation; as, a general's aid.

Aidance (n.) Aid.

Aidant (a.) Helping; helpful; supplying aid.

Aids-de-camp (pl. ) of Aid-de-camp

Aid-de-camp (n.) An officer selected by a general to carry orders, also to assist or represent him in correspondence and in directing movements.

Aider (n.) One who, or that which, aids.

Aidful (a.) Helpful.

Aidless (a.) Helpless; without aid.

Aid-major (n.) The adjutant of a regiment.

Aiel (n.) See Ayle.

Aiglet (n.) Same as Aglet.

Aigre (a.) Sour.

Aigremore (n.) Charcoal prepared for making powder.

Aigret (n.) Alt. of Aigrette

Aigrette (n.) The small white European heron. See Egret.

Aigrette (n.) A plume or tuft for the head composed of feathers, or of gems, etc.

Aigrette (n.) A tuft like that of the egret.

Aigrette (n.) A feathery crown of seed; egret; as, the aigrette or down of the dandelion or the thistle.

Aiguille (n.) A needle-shaped peak.

Aiguille (n.) An instrument for boring holes, used in blasting.

Aiguillette (n.) A point or tag at the end of a fringe or lace; an aglet.

Aiguillette (n.) One of the ornamental tags, cords, or loops on some military and naval uniforms.

Aigulet (n.) See Aglet.

Ailed (imp. & p. p.) of Ail

Ailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ail

Ail (v. t.) To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental; to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasiness or affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man? I know not what ails him.

Ail (v. i.) To be affected with pain or uneasiness of any sort; to be ill or indisposed or in trouble.

Ail (n.) Indisposition or morbid affection.

Ailanthus (n.) Same as Ailantus.

Ailantus (n.) A genus of beautiful trees, natives of the East Indies. The tree imperfectly di/cious, and the staminate or male plant is very offensive when blossom.

Ailette (n.) A small square shield, formerly worn on the shoulders of knights, -- being the prototype of the modern epaulet.

Ailment (n.) Indisposition; morbid affection of the body; -- not applied ordinarily to acute diseases.

Ailuroidea (n. pl.) A group of the Carnivora, which includes the cats, civets, and hyenas.

Aimed (imp. & p. p.) of Aim

Aiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aim

Aim (v. i.) To point or direct a missile weapon, or a weapon which propels as missile, towards an object or spot with the intent of hitting it; as, to aim at a fox, or at a target.

Aim (v. i.) To direct the indention or purpose; to attempt the accomplishment of a purpose; to try to gain; to endeavor; -- followed by at, or by an infinitive; as, to aim at distinction; to aim to do well.

Aim (v. i.) To guess or conjecture.

Aim (v. t.) To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; to direct, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against an object; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (at something); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice).

Aim (v. i.) The pointing of a weapon, as a gun, a dart, or an arrow, in the line of direction with the object intended to be struck; the line of fire; the direction of anything, as a spear, a blow, a discourse, a remark, towards a particular point or object, with a view to strike or affect it.

Aim (v. i.) The point intended to be hit, or object intended to be attained or affected.

Aim (v. i.) Intention; purpose; design; scheme.

Aim (v. i.) Conjecture; guess.

Aimer (n.) One who aims, directs, or points.

Aimless (a.) Without aim or purpose; as, an aimless life.

Aino (n.) One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islands etc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposed to have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout and short, with hairy bodies.

Ain't () A contraction for are not and am not; also used for is not. [Colloq. or illiterate speech]. See An't.

Air (n.) The fluid which we breathe, and which surrounds the earth; the atmosphere. It is invisible, inodorous, insipid, transparent, compressible, elastic, and ponderable.

Air (n.) Symbolically: Something unsubstantial, light, or volatile.

Air (n.) A particular state of the atmosphere, as respects heat, cold, moisture, etc., or as affecting the sensations; as, a smoky air, a damp air, the morning air, etc.

Air (n.) Any aeriform body; a gas; as, oxygen was formerly called vital air.

Air (n.) Air in motion; a light breeze; a gentle wind.

Air (n.) Odoriferous or contaminated air.

Air (n.) That which surrounds and influences.

Air (n.) Utterance abroad; publicity; vent.

Air (n.) Intelligence; information.

Air (n.) A musical idea, or motive, rhythmically developed in consecutive single tones, so as to form a symmetrical and balanced whole, which may be sung by a single voice to the stanzas of a hymn or song, or even to plain prose, or played upon an instrument; a melody; a tune; an aria.

Air (n.) In harmonized chorals, psalmody, part songs, etc., the part which bears the tune or melody -- in modern harmony usually the upper part -- is sometimes called the air.

Air (n.) The peculiar look, appearance, and bearing of a person; mien; demeanor; as, the air of a youth; a heavy air; a lofty air.

Air (n.) Peculiar appearance; apparent character; semblance; manner; style.

Air (n.) An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity; haughtiness; as, it is said of a person, he puts on airs.

Air (n.) The representation or reproduction of the effect of the atmospheric medium through which every object in nature is viewed.

Air (n.) Carriage; attitude; action; movement; as, the head of that portrait has a good air.

Air (n.) The artificial motion or carriage of a horse.

Aired (imp. & p. p.) of Air

Airing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Air

Air (n.) To expose to the air for the purpose of cooling, refreshing, or purifying; to ventilate; as, to air a room.

Air (n.) To expose for the sake of public notice; to display ostentatiously; as, to air one's opinion.

Air (n.) To expose to heat, for the purpose of expelling dampness, or of warming; as, to air linen; to air liquors.

Air bed () A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed.

Air bladder () An air sac, sometimes double or variously lobed, in the visceral cavity of many fishes. It originates in the same way as the lungs of air-breathing vertebrates, and in the adult may retain a tubular connection with the pharynx or esophagus.

Air bladder () A sac or bladder full of air in an animal or plant; also an air hole in a casting.

Air brake () A railway brake operated by condensed air.

Air-built (a.) Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as, an air-built castle.

Air cell () A cavity in the cellular tissue of plants, containing air only.

Air cell () A receptacle of air in various parts of the system; as, a cell or minute cavity in the walls of the air tubes of the lungs; the air sac of birds; a dilatation of the air vessels in insects.

Air chamber () A chamber or cavity filled with air, in an animal or plant.

Air chamber () A cavity containing air to act as a spring for equalizing the flow of a liquid in a pump or other hydraulic machine.

Air cock () A faucet to allow escape of air.

Air-drawn (a.) Drawn in air; imaginary.

Air drill () A drill driven by the elastic pressure of condensed air; a pneumatic drill.

Air engine () An engine driven by heated or by compressed air.

Airer (n.) One who exposes to the air.

Airer (n.) A frame on which clothes are aired or dried.

Air gas () See under Gas.

Air gun () A kind of gun in which the elastic force of condensed air is used to discharge the ball. The air is powerfully compressed into a reservoir attached to the gun, by a condensing pump, and is controlled by a valve actuated by the trigger.

Air hole () A hole to admit or discharge air; specifically, a spot in the ice not frozen over.

Air hole () A fault in a casting, produced by a bubble of air; a blowhole.

Airily (adv.) In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; flippantly.

Airiness (n.) The state or quality of being airy; openness or exposure to the air; as, the airiness of a country seat.

Airiness (n.) Lightness of spirits; gayety; levity; as, the airiness of young persons.

Airing (n.) A walk or a ride in the open air; a short excursion for health's sake.

Airing (n.) An exposure to air, or to a fire, for warming, drying, etc.; as, the airing of linen, or of a room.

Air jacket () A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can be filled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming.

Airless (a.) Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, or communication with the open air.

Air level () Spirit level. See Level.

Airlike (a.) Resembling air.

Airling (n.) A thoughtless, gay person.

Airometer (n.) A hollow cylinder to contain air. It is closed above and open below, and has its open end plunged into water.

Air pipe () A pipe for the passage of air; esp. a ventilating pipe.

Air plant () A plant deriving its sustenance from the air alone; an aerophyte.

Air poise () An instrument to measure the weight of air.

Air pump () A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closed space; also, a pump to condense air or force it into a closed space.

Air pump () A pump used to exhaust from a condenser the condensed steam, the water used for condensing, and any commingled air.

Air sac () One of the spaces in different parts of the bodies of birds, which are filled with air and connected with the air passages of the lungs; an air cell.

Air shaft () A passage, usually vertical, for admitting fresh air into a mine or a tunnel.

Air-slacked (a.) Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slacked lime.

Air stove () A stove for heating a current of air which is directed against its surface by means of pipes, and then distributed through a building.

Air-tight (a.) So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tight cylinder.

Air-tight (n.) A stove the draft of which can be almost entirely shut off.

Air vessel () A vessel, cell, duct, or tube containing or conducting air; as the air vessels of insects, birds, plants, etc.; the air vessel of a pump, engine, etc. For the latter, see Air chamber. The air vessels of insects are called tracheae, of plants spiral vessels.

Airward (adv.) Alt. of Airwards

Airwards (adv.) Toward the air; upward.

Airy (a.) Consisting of air; as, an airy substance; the airy parts of bodies.

Airy (a.) Relating or belonging to air; high in air; aerial; as, an airy flight.

Airy (a.) Open to a free current of air; exposed to the air; breezy; as, an airy situation.

Airy (a.) Resembling air; thin; unsubstantial; not material; airlike.

Airy (a.) Relating to the spirit or soul; delicate; graceful; as, airy music.

Airy (a.) Without reality; having no solid foundation; empty; trifling; visionary.

Airy (a.) Light of heart; vivacious; sprightly; flippant; superficial.

Airy (a.) Having an affected manner; being in the habit of putting on airs; affectedly grand.

Airy (a.) Having the light and aerial tints true to nature.

Aisle (n.) A lateral division of a building, separated from the middle part, called the nave, by a row of columns or piers, which support the roof or an upper wall containing windows, called the clearstory wall.

Aisle (n.) Improperly used also for the have; -- as in the phrases, a church with three aisles, the middle aisle.

Aisle (n.) Also (perhaps from confusion with alley), a passage into which the pews of a church open.

Aisled (a.) Furnished with an aisle or aisles.

Aisless (a.) Without an aisle.

Ait (n.) An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot.

Ait (n.) Oat.

Aitch (n.) The letter h or H.

Aitchbone (n.) The bone of the rump; also, the cut of beef surrounding this bone.

Aitiology (n.) See Aetiology.

Ajar (adv.) Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar.

Ajar (adv.) In a state of discord; out of harmony; as, he is ajar with the world.

Ajog (adv.) On the jog.

Ajutage (n.) A tube through which water is discharged; an efflux tube; as, the ajutage of a fountain.

Ake (n. & v.) See Ache.

Akene (n.) Same as Achene.

Aketon (n.) See Acton.

Akimbo (a.) With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turned outward.

Akin (a.) Of the same kin; related by blood; -- used of persons; as, the two families are near akin.

Akin (a.) Allied by nature; partaking of the same properties; of the same kind.

Akinesia (n.) Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement.

Akinesic (a.) Pertaining to akinesia.

Aknee (adv.) On the knee.

Aknow () Earlier form of Acknow.

Al (a.) All.

Al- (A prefix.) All; wholly; completely; as, almighty, almost.

Al- (A prefix.) To; at; on; -- in OF. shortened to a-. See Ad-.

Al- (A prefix.) The Arabic definite article answering to the English the; as, Alkoran, the Koran or the Book; alchemy, the chemistry.

Al (conj.) Although; if.

Alae (pl. ) of Ala

Ala (n.) A winglike organ, or part.

Alabama period () A period in the American eocene, the lowest in the tertiary age except the lignitic.

Alabaster (n.) A compact variety or sulphate of lime, or gypsum, of fine texture, and usually white and translucent, but sometimes yellow, red, or gray. It is carved into vases, mantel ornaments, etc.

Alabaster (n.) A hard, compact variety of carbonate of lime, somewhat translucent, or of banded shades of color; stalagmite. The name is used in this sense by Pliny. It is sometimes distinguished as oriental alabaster.

Alabaster (n.) A box or vessel for holding odoriferous ointments, etc.; -- so called from the stone of which it was originally made.

Alabastrian (a.) Alabastrine.

Alabastrine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, alabaster; as alabastrine limbs.

Alabastra (pl. ) of Alabastrum

Alabastrum (n.) A flower bud.

Alack (interj.) An exclamation expressive of sorrow.

Alackaday (interj.) An exclamation expressing sorrow.

Alacrify (v. t.) To rouse to action; to inspirit.

Alacrious (a.) Brisk; joyously active; lively.

Alacriously (adv.) With alacrity; briskly.

Alacriousness (n.) Alacrity.

Alacrity (n.) A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyous activity; briskness; sprightliness; as, the soldiers advanced with alacrity to meet the enemy.

Aladinist (n.) One of a sect of freethinkers among the Mohammedans.

Alalonga (n.) Alt. of Alilonghi

Alilonghi (n.) The tunny. See Albicore.

Alamire (n.) The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music.

Alamodality (n.) The quality of being a la mode; conformity to the mode or fashion; fashionableness.

Alamode (adv. & a.) According to the fashion or prevailing mode.

Alamode (n.) A thin, black silk for hoods, scarfs, etc.; -- often called simply mode.

Alamort (a.) To the death; mortally.

Alan (n.) A wolfhound.

Aland (adv.) On land; to the land; ashore.

Alanine (n.) A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehyde ammonia.

Alantin (n.) See Inulin.

Alar (a.) Pertaining to, or having, wings.

Alar (a.) Axillary; in the fork or axil.

Alarm (n.) A summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy.

Alarm (n.) Any sound or information intended to give notice of approaching danger; a warning sound to arouse attention; a warning of danger.

Alarm (n.) A sudden attack; disturbance; broil.

Alarm (n.) Sudden surprise with fear or terror excited by apprehension of danger; in the military use, commonly, sudden apprehension of being attacked by surprise.

Alarm (n.) A mechanical contrivance for awaking persons from sleep, or rousing their attention; an alarum.

Alarmed (imp. & p. p.) of Alarm

Alarming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alarm

Alarm (v. t.) To call to arms for defense; to give notice to (any one) of approaching danger; to rouse to vigilance and action; to put on the alert.

Alarm (v. t.) To keep in excitement; to disturb.

Alarm (v. t.) To surprise with apprehension of danger; to fill with anxiety in regard to threatening evil; to excite with sudden fear.

Alarmable (a.) Easily alarmed or disturbed.

Alarmed (a.) Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger; agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty.

Alarmedly (adv.) In an alarmed manner.

Alarming (a.) Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehension of danger; as, an alarming crisis or report. -- A*larming*ly, adv.

Alarmist (n.) One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needless alarms.

Alarum (n.) See Alarm.

Alary (a.) Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped.

Alas (interj.) An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the day, like alack a day, or alas the white.

Alate (adv.) Lately; of late.

Alate (a.) Alt. of Alated

Alated (a.) Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings.

Alatern (n.) Alt. of Alaternus

Alaternus (n.) An ornamental evergreen shrub (Rhamnus alaternus) belonging to the buckthorns.

Alation (n.) The state of being winged.

Alaunt (n.) See Alan.

Alb (n.) A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an enveloping the person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holy orders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least by clerics, in daily life.

Albacore (n.) See Albicore.

Alban (n.) A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta-percha by the action of alcohol or ether.

Albanian (a.) Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.

Albanian (n.) A native of Albania.

Albata (n.) A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks, teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver, under German.

Albatross (n.) A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there are several species. They are the largest of sea birds, capable of long-continued flight, and are often seen at great distances from the land. They are found chiefly in the southern hemisphere.

Albe (conj.) Alt. of Albee

Albee (conj.) Although; albeit.

Albedo (n.) Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the light reflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light falling upon that surface.

Albeit (conj.) Even though; although; notwithstanding.

Albertite (n.) A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the county of A. /bert, New Brunswick.

Albertype (n.) A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced by means of a photographic negative.

Albescence (n.) The act of becoming white; whitishness.

Albescent (a.) Becoming white or whitish; moderately white.

Albicant (a.) Growing or becoming white.

Albication (n.) The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, or streaks.

Albicore (n.) A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family, esp. Orcynus alalonga. One species (Orcynus thynnus), common in the Mediterranean and Atlantic, is called in New England the horse mackerel; the tunny.

Albification (n.) The act or process of making white.

Albigenses (n. pl.) Alt. of Albigeois

Albigeois (n. pl.) A sect of reformers opposed to the church of Rome in the 12th centuries.

Albigensian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Albigenses.

Albiness (n.) A female albino.

Albinism (n.) The state or condition of being an albino: abinoism; leucopathy.

Albinistic (a.) Affected with albinism.

Albinos (pl. ) of Albino

Albino (n.) A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin, hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has a skin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deep red pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the lower animals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitish condition from the absence of chlorophyll.

Albinoism (n.) The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.

Albinotic (a.) Affected with albinism.

Albion (n.) An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry.

Albite (n.) A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization, and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a common constituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar.

Albolith (n.) A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consisting chiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite.

Alborak (n.) The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said to have been carried up to heaven; a white mule.

Albugineous (a.) Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of an egg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., which are perfectly white.

Albugines (pl. ) of Albugo

Albugo (n.) Same as Leucoma.

Album (n.) A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of names, etc.

Album (n.) A register for visitors' names; a visitors' book.

Album (n.) A blank book, in which to insert autographs sketches, memorial writing of friends, photographs, etc.

Albumen (n.) The white of an egg.

Albumen (n.) Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seed in many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo. It is the floury part in corn, wheat, and like grains, the oily part in poppy seeds, the fleshy part in the cocoanut, etc.

Albumen (n.) Same as Albumin.

Albumenized (imp. & p. p.) of Albumenize

Albumenizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Albumenize

Albumenize (v. t.) To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with an albuminous solution; as, to albumenize paper.

Album Graecum () Dung of dogs or hyenas, which becomes white by exposure to air. It is used in dressing leather, and was formerly used in medicine.

Albumin (n.) A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief and characteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum of blood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid, also in many plants. It is soluble in water and is coagulated by heat and by certain chemical reagents.

Albuminate (n.) A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin, and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed by the union of albumin with another substance.

Albuminiferous (a.) Supplying albumen.

Albuminimeter (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in a liquid.

Albuminin (n.) The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds' eggs.

Albuminiparous (a.) Producing albumin.

Albuminoid (a.) Resembling albumin.

Albuminoid (n.) One of a class of organic principles (called also proteids) which form the main part of organized tissues.

Albuminoidal (a.) Of the nature of an albuminoid.

Albuminose (n.) A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action of natural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone.

Albuminous (a.) Alt. of Albuminose

Albuminose (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, albumen; having the properties of, or resembling, albumen or albumin.

Albuminuria (n.) A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine.

Albumose (n.) A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by dilute acids or by an acid solution of pepsin. Used also in combination, as antialbumose, hemialbumose.

Alburn (n.) The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls.

Alburnous (a.) Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnous substances.

Alburnum (n.) The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark and the hard wood or duramen; sapwood.

Albyn (n.) Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland.

Alcade (n.) Same as Alcaid.

Alcahest (n.) Same as Alkahest.

Alcaic (a.) Pertaining to Alcaeus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b. c.

Alcaic (n.) A kind of verse, so called from Alcaeus. One variety consists of five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, and two dactyls.

Alcaid (n.) Alt. of Alcayde

Alcayde (n.) A commander of a castle or fortress among the Spaniards, Portuguese, and Moors.

Alcayde (n.) The warden, or keeper of a jail.

Alcalde (n.) A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc.

Alcalimeter (n.) See Alkalimeter.

Alcanna (n.) An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna is obtained.

Alcarrazas (pl. ) of Alcarraza

Alcarraza (n.) A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids by evaporation from the exterior surface.

Alcayde (n.) Same as Alcaid.

Alcazar (n.) A fortress; also, a royal palace.

Alcedo (n.) A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher (Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.

Alchemic (a.) Alt. of Alchemical

Alchemical (a.) Of or relating to alchemy.

Alchemically (adv.) In the manner of alchemy.

Alchemist (n.) One who practices alchemy.

Alchemistic (a.) Alt. of Alchemistical

Alchemistical (a.) Relating to or practicing alchemy.

Alchemistry (n.) Alchemy.

Alchemize (v. t.) To change by alchemy; to transmute.

Alchemy (n.) An imaginary art which aimed to transmute the baser metals into gold, to find the panacea, or universal remedy for diseases, etc. It led the way to modern chemistry.

Alchemy (n.) A mixed metal composed mainly of brass, formerly used for various utensils; hence, a trumpet.

Alchemy (n.) Miraculous power of transmuting something common into something precious.

Alchymic (n.) Alt. of Alchymy

Alchymist (n.) Alt. of Alchymy

Alchymistic (n.) Alt. of Alchymy

Alchymy (n.) See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.

Alco (n.) A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.

Alcoate (n.) Alt. of Alcohate

Alcohate (n.) Shortened forms of Alcoholate.

Alcohol (n.) An impalpable powder.

Alcohol (n.) The fluid essence or pure spirit obtained by distillation.

Alcohol (n.) Pure spirit of wine; pure or highly rectified spirit (called also ethyl alcohol); the spirituous or intoxicating element of fermented or distilled liquors, or more loosely a liquid containing it in considerable quantity. It is extracted by simple distillation from various vegetable juices and infusions of a saccharine nature, which have undergone vinous fermentation.

Alcohol (n.) A class of compounds analogous to vinic alcohol in constitution. Chemically speaking, they are hydroxides of certain organic radicals; as, the radical ethyl forms common or ethyl alcohol (C2H5.OH); methyl forms methyl alcohol (CH3.OH) or wood spirit; amyl forms amyl alcohol (C5H11.OH) or fusel oil, etc.

Alcoholate (n.) A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which the latter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.

Alcoholature (n.) An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants.

Alcoholic (a.) Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities; derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as, alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor.

Alcoholic (n.) A person given to the use of alcoholic liquors.

Alcoholic (n.) Alcoholic liquors.

Alcoholism (n.) A diseased condition of the system, brought about by the continued use of alcoholic liquors.

Alcoholization (n.) The act of reducing a substance to a fine or impalpable powder.

Alcoholization (n.) The act rectifying spirit.

Alcoholization (n.) Saturation with alcohol; putting the animal system under the influence of alcoholic liquor.

Alcoholized (imp. & p. p.) of Alcoholize

Alcoholizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alcoholize

Alcoholize (v. t.) To reduce to a fine powder.

Alcoholize (v. t.) To convert into alcohol; to rectify; also, to saturate with alcohol.

Alcoholometer (n.) Alt. of Alcoholmeter

Alcoholmeter (n.) An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol, either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with a special scale.

Alcoholometric (a.) Alt. of Alcoholmetrical

Alcoholometrical (a.) Alt. of Alcoholmetrical

Alcoholmetrical (a.) Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry.

Alcoholometry (n.) The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.

Alcohometer (a.) Alt. of Alcohometric

Alcohometric (a.) Same as Alcoholometer, Alcoholometric.

Alcoometry (n.) See Alcoholometry.

Alcoran (n.) The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form).

Alcoranic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Koran.

Alcoranist (n.) One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting all traditions.

Alcove (n.) A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess in a library.

Alcove (n.) A small ornamental building with seats, or an arched seat, in a pleasure ground; a garden bower.

Alcove (n.) Any natural recess analogous to an alcove or recess in an apartment.

Alcyon (n.) See Halcyon.

Alcyonacea (n. pl.) A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is the type. See Illust. under Alcyonaria.

Alcyonaria (n. pl.) One of the orders of Anthozoa. It includes the Alcyonacea, Pennatulacea, and Gorgonacea.

Alcyones (n. pl.) The kingfishers.

Alcyonic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.

Alcyonium (n.) A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resembling flowers with eight fringed rays. The term was also formerly used for certain species of sponges.

Alcyonoid (a.) Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.

Alcyonoid (n.) A zoophyte of the order Alcyonaria.

Alday (adv.) Continually.

Aldebaran (n.) A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye of Taurus; the Bull's Eye. It is the bright star in the group called the Hyades.

Aldehyde (n.) A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained from alcohol by certain processes of oxidation.

Aldehydic (a.) Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid.

Alder (n.) A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the genus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers and tanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs or small trees.

Alder (a.) Alt. of Aller

Aller (a.) Of all; -- used in composition; as, alderbest, best of all, alderwisest, wisest of all.

Alder-liefest (a.) Most beloved.

Aldermen (pl. ) of Alderman

Alderman (n.) A senior or superior; a person of rank or dignity.

Alderman (n.) One of a board or body of municipal officers next in order to the mayor and having a legislative function. They may, in some cases, individually exercise some magisterial and administrative functions.

Aldermancy (n.) The office of an alderman.

Aldermanic (a.) Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristic of an alderman.

Aldermanity (n.) Aldermen collectively; the body of aldermen.

Aldermanity (n.) The state of being an alderman.

Aldermanlike (a.) Like or suited to an alderman.

Aldermanly (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.

Aldermanly (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.

Aldermanry (n.) The district or ward of an alderman.

Aldermanry (n.) The office or rank of an alderman.

Aldermanship (n.) The condition, position, or office of an alderman.

Aldern (a.) Made of alder.

Alderney (n.) One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the Channel Islands. Alderneys are of a dun or tawny color and are often called Jersey cattle. See Jersey, 3.

Aldine (a.) An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) which proceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, of Venice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the sign of the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied to certain elegant editions of English works.

Ale (n.) An intoxicating liquor made from an infusion of malt by fermentation and the addition of a bitter, usually hops.

Ale (n.) A festival in English country places, so called from the liquor drunk.

Aleak (adv. & a.) In a leaking condition.

Aleatory (a.) Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatory contract.

Alebench (n.) A bench in or before an alehouse.

Aleberry (n.) A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and sops of bread.

Alecithal (a.) Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which have little or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm.

Aleconner (n.) Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale and beer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London to inspect the measures used in public houses. But the office is a sinecure. [Also called aletaster.]

Alecost (n.) The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoring ale.

Alectorides (n. pl.) A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants.

Alectoromachy (n.) Cockfighting.

Alectoromancy (n.) See Alectryomancy.

Alectryom'achy (n.) Cockfighting.

Alectryomancy (n.) Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on the letters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the order in which the grains were eaten.

Alee (adv.) On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close to the lee side.

Alegar (n.) Sour ale; vinegar made of ale.

Aleger (a.) Gay; cheerful; sprightly.

Alegge (v. t.) To allay or alleviate; to lighten.

Alehoof (n.) Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma).

Alehouse (n.) A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house.

Ale-knight (n.) A pot companion.

Alemannic (a.) Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike German tribes.

Alemannic (n.) The language of the Alemanni.

Alembic (n.) An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made of glass or metal. It has mostly given place to the retort and worm still.

Alembroth (n.) The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed of the chlorides of ammonium and mercury. It was formerly used as a stimulant.

Alen/on lace () See under Lace.

Alength (adv.) At full length; lengthwise.

Alepidote (a.) Not having scales.

Alepidote (n.) A fish without scales.

Alepole (n.) A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse.

Alert (a.) Watchful; vigilant; active in vigilance.

Alert (a.) Brisk; nimble; moving with celerity.

Alert (n.) An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack; also, a bugle sound to give warning.

Alertly (adv.) In an alert manner; nimbly.

Alertness (n.) The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness; nimbleness; activity.

Ale silver () A duty payable to the lord mayor of London by the sellers of ale within the city.

Alestake (n.) A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse, as a sign; an alepole. At the end was commonly suspended a garland, a bunch of leaves, or a bush.

Aletaster (n.) See Aleconner.

Alethiology (n.) The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence.

Alethoscope (n.) An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as to present them in their natural proportions and relations.

Aleuromancy (n.) Divination by means of flour.

Aleurometer (n.) An instrument for determining the expansive properties, or quality, of gluten in flour.

Aleurone (n.) An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains (protein granules) in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be a modification of protoplasm.

Aleuronic (a.) Having the nature of aleurone.

Aleutian (a.) Alt. of Aleutic

Aleutic (a.) Of or pertaining to a chain of islands between Alaska and Kamtchatka; also, designating these islands.

Alevin (n.) Young fish; fry.

Alew (n.) Halloo.

Alewives (pl. ) of Alewife

Alewife (n.) A woman who keeps an alehouse.

Alewives (pl. ) of Alewife

Alewife (n.) A North American fish (Clupea vernalis) of the Herring family. It is called also ellwife, ellwhop, branch herring. The name is locally applied to other related species.

Alexanders (n.) Alt. of Alisanders

Alisanders (n.) A name given to two species of the genus Smyrnium, formerly cultivated and used as celery now is; -- called also horse parsely.

Alexandrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Alexandria in Egypt; as, the Alexandrian library.

Alexandrian (a.) Applied to a kind of heroic verse. See Alexandrine, n.

Alexandrine (a.) Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian.

Alexandrine (n.) A kind of verse consisting in English of twelve syllables.

Alexipharmac (a. & n.) Alt. of Alexipharmacal

Alexipharmacal (a. & n.) Alexipharmic.

Alexipharmic (a.) Alt. of Alexipharmical

Alexipharmical (a.) Expelling or counteracting poison; antidotal.

Alexipharmic (n.) An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.

Alexipyretic (a.) Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile.

Alexipyretic (n.) A febrifuge.

Alexiteric (a.) Alt. of Alexiterical

Alexiterical (a.) Resisting poison; obviating the effects of venom; alexipharmic.

Alexiteric (n.) A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, and the effects of poison in general.

Alfa (n.) Alt. of Alfa grass

Alfa grass (n.) A plant (Macrochloa tenacissima) of North Africa; also, its fiber, used in paper making.

Alfalfa (n.) The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California, Texas, etc.

Alfenide (n.) An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver.

Alferes (n.) An ensign; a standard bearer.

Alfet (n.) A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.

Alfilaria (n.) The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.

Alfione (n.) An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes).

Alfresco (adv. & a.) In the open-air.

Algae (pl. ) of Alga

Alga (n.) A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse, sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervae, etc.

Algal (a.) Pertaining to, or like, algae.

Algaroba (n.) The Carob, a leguminous tree of the Mediterranean region; also, its edible beans or pods, called St. John's bread.

Algaroba (n.) The Honey mesquite (Prosopis juliflora), a small tree found from California to Buenos Ayres; also, its sweet, pulpy pods. A valuable gum, resembling gum arabic, is collected from the tree in Texas and Mexico.

Algarot (n.) Alt. of Algaroth

Algaroth (n.) A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which is a compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony. It was formerly used in medicine as an emetic, purgative, and diaphoretic.

Algarovilla (n.) The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a South American tree (Inga Marthae). It is valuable for tanning leather, and as a dye.

Algate (adv.) Alt. of Algates

Algates (adv.) Always; wholly; everywhere.

Algates (adv.) By any or means; at all events.

Algates (adv.) Notwithstanding; yet.

Algazel (n.) The true gazelle.

Algebra (n.) That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations and properties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols. It is applicable to those relations that are true of every kind of magnitude.

Algebra (n.) A treatise on this science.

Algebraic (a.) Alt. of Algebraical

Algebraical (a.) Of or pertaining to algebra; containing an operation of algebra, or deduced from such operation; as, algebraic characters; algebraical writings.

Algebraically (adv.) By algebraic process.

Algebraist (n.) One versed in algebra.

Algebraize (v. t.) To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form.

Algerian (a.) Of or pertaining to Algeria.

Algerian (n.) A native of Algeria.

Algerine (a.) Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria.

Algerine (n.) A native or one of the people of Algiers or Algeria. Also, a pirate.

Algid (a.) Cold; chilly.

Algidity (n.) Chilliness; coldness

Algidity (n.) coldness and collapse.

Algidness (n.) Algidity.

Algific (a.) Producing cold.

Algoid (a.) Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga.

Algol (n.) A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus, remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness.

Algological (a.) Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens.

Algologist (n.) One learned about algae; a student of algology.

Algology (n.) The study or science of algae or seaweeds.

Algonquin (n.) Alt. of Algonkin

Algonkin (n.) One of a widely spread family of Indians, including many distinct tribes, which formerly occupied most of the northern and eastern part of North America. The name was originally applied to a group of Indian tribes north of the River St. Lawrence.

Algor (n.) Cold; chilliness.

Algorism (n.) Alt. of Algorithm

Algorithm (n.) The art of calculating by nine figures and zero.

Algorithm (n.) The art of calculating with any species of notation; as, the algorithms of fractions, proportions, surds, etc.

Algous (a.) Of or pertaining to the algae, or seaweeds; abounding with, or like, seaweed.

Alguazil (n.) An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; a constable.

Algum (n.) Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable).

Alhambra (n.) The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.

Alhambraic (a.) Alt. of Alhambresque

Alhambresque (a.) Made or decorated after the fanciful style of the ornamentation in the Alhambra, which affords an unusually fine exhibition of Saracenic or Arabesque architecture.

Alhenna (n.) See Henna.

Alias (adv.) Otherwise; otherwise called; -- a term used in legal proceedings to connect the different names of any one who has gone by two or more, and whose true name is for any cause doubtful; as, Smith, alias Simpson.

Alias (adv.) At another time.

Aliases (pl. ) of Alias

Alias (n.) A second or further writ which is issued after a first writ has expired without effect.

Alias (n.) Another name; an assumed name.

Alibi (n.) The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an alibi.

Alibility (n.) Quality of being alible.

Alible (a.) Nutritive; nourishing.

Alicant (n.) A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have been made near Alicant, in Spain.

Alidade (n.) The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant or astrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degrees cut off on the arc of the instrument

Alien (a.) Not belonging to the same country, land, or government, or to the citizens or subjects thereof; foreign; as, alien subjects, enemies, property, shores.

Alien (a.) Wholly different in nature; foreign; adverse; inconsistent (with); incongruous; -- followed by from or sometimes by to; as, principles alien from our religion.

Alien (n.) A foreigner; one owing allegiance, or belonging, to another country; a foreign-born resident of a country in which he does not possess the privileges of a citizen. Hence, a stranger. See Alienage.

Alien (n.) One excluded from certain privileges; one alienated or estranged; as, aliens from God's mercies.

Alien (v. t.) To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property or ownership.

Alienability (n.) Capability of being alienated.

Alienable (a.) Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another; as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state.

Alienage (n.) The state or legal condition of being an alien.

Alienage (n.) The state of being alienated or transferred to another.

Alienate (a.) Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.

Alienated (imp. & p. p.) of Alienate

Alienating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alienate

Alienate (v. t.) To convey or transfer to another, as title, property, or right; to part voluntarily with ownership of.

Alienate (v. t.) To withdraw, as the affections; to make indifferent of averse, where love or friendship before subsisted; to estrange; to wean; -- with from.

Alienate (n.) A stranger; an alien.

Alienation (n.) The act of alienating, or the state of being alienated.

Alienation (n.) A transfer of title, or a legal conveyance of property to another.

Alienation (n.) A withdrawing or estrangement, as of the affections.

Alienation (n.) Mental alienation; derangement of the mental faculties; insanity; as, alienation of mind.

Alienator (n.) One who alienates.

Aliene (v. t.) To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to aliene an estate.

Alienee (n.) One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed to alienor.

Alienism (n.) The status or legal condition of an alien; alienage.

Alienism (n.) The study or treatment of diseases of the mind.

Alienist (n.) One who treats diseases of the mind.

Alienor (n.) One who alienates or transfers property to another.

Aliethmoid (a.) Alt. of Aliethmoidal

Aliethmoidal (a.) Pertaining to expansions of the ethmoid bone or cartilage.

Alife (adv.) On my life; dearly.

Aliferous (a.) Having wings, winged; aligerous.

Aliform (a.) Wing-shaped; winglike.

Aligerous (a.) Having wings; winged.

Alighted (imp. & p. p.) of Alight

Alit () of Alight

Alighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alight

Alight (v. i.) To spring down, get down, or descend, as from on horseback or from a carriage; to dismount.

Alight (v. i.) To descend and settle, lodge, rest, or stop; as, a flying bird alights on a tree; snow alights on a roof.

Alight (v. i.) To come or chance (upon).

Alight (a.) Lighted; lighted up; in a flame.

Align (v. t.) To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring into line; to aline.

Align (v. t.) To form in line; to fall into line.

Alignment (n.) The act of adjusting to a line; arrangement in a line or lines; the state of being so adjusted; a formation in a straight line; also, the line of adjustment; esp., an imaginary line to regulate the formation of troops or of a squadron.

Alignment (n.) The ground-plan of a railway or other road, in distinction from the grades or profile.

Alike (a.) Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.

Alike (adv.) In the same manner, form, or degree; in common; equally; as, we are all alike concerned in religion.

Alike-minded (a.) Like-minded.

Aliment (n.) That which nourishes; food; nutriment; anything which feeds or adds to a substance in natural growth. Hence: The necessaries of life generally: sustenance; means of support.

Aliment (n.) An allowance for maintenance.

Aliment (v. t.) To nourish; to support.

Aliment (v. t.) To provide for the maintenance of.

Alimental (a.) Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishing the materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap.

Alimentally (adv.) So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality.

Alimentariness (n.) The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality.

Alimentary (a.) Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition; nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances.

Alimentation (n.) The act or process of affording nutriment; the function of the alimentary canal.

Alimentation (n.) State or mode of being nourished.

Alimentiveness (n.) The instinct or faculty of appetite for food.

Alimonious (a.) Affording food; nourishing.

Alimony (n.) Maintenance; means of living.

Alimony (n.) An allowance made to a wife out of her husband's estate or income for her support, upon her divorce or legal separation from him, or during a suit for the same.

Alinasal (a.) Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.

Aline (v. t.) To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.

Alineation (n.) See Allineation.

Alinement (n.) Same as Alignment.

Aliner (n.) One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into line.

Alioth (n.) A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in the Dipper.

Aliped (a.) Wing-footed, as the bat.

Aliped (n.) An animal whose toes are connected by a membrane, serving for a wing, as the bat.

Aliquant (a.) An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does not divide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of 16. Opposed to aliquot.

Aliquot (a.) An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which will divide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15. Opposed to aliquant.

Aliseptal (a.) Relating to expansions of the nasal septum.

Alish (a.) Like ale; as, an alish taste.

Alisphenoid (a.) Alt. of Alisphenoidal

Alisphenoidal (a.) Pertaining to or forming the wing of the sphenoid; relating to a bone in the base of the skull, which in the adult is often consolidated with the sphenoid; as, alisphenoid bone; alisphenoid canal.

Alisphenoid (n.) The alisphenoid bone.

Alitrunk (n.) The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings are attached; the thorax.

Aliturgical (a.) Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered.

Aliunde (adv. & a.) From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde; evidence aliunde.

Alive (a.) Having life, in opposition to dead; living; being in a state in which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant which is alive.

Alive (a.) In a state of action; in force or operation; unextinguished; unexpired; existent; as, to keep the fire alive; to keep the affections alive.

Alive (a.) Exhibiting the activity and motion of many living beings; swarming; thronged.

Alive (a.) Sprightly; lively; brisk.

Alive (a.) Having susceptibility; easily impressed; having lively feelings, as opposed to apathy; sensitive.

Alive (a.) Of all living (by way of emphasis).

Alizari (n.) The madder of the Levant.

Alizarin (n.) A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and now produced artificially from anthracene. It produces the Turkish reds.

Alkahest (n.) The fabled universal solvent of the alchemists; a menstruum capable of dissolving all bodies.

Alkalamide (n.) One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia in which a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and another part by acid, atoms or radicals.

Alkalescence (n.) Alt. of Alkalescency

Alkalescency (n.) A tendency to become alkaline; or the state of a substance in which alkaline properties begin to be developed, or to predominant.

Alkalescent (a.) Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline.

Alkalis (pl. ) of Alkali

Alkalies (pl. ) of Alkali

Alkali (n.) Soda ash; caustic soda, caustic potash, etc.

Alkali (n.) One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammonia, and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility in alcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap, neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown several vegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue.

Alkalifiable (a.) Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.

Alkalified (imp. & p. p.) of Alkalify

Alkalifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alkalify

Alkalify (v. t.) To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to.

Alkalify (v. i.) To become changed into an alkali.

Alkalimeter (n.) An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the quantity of alkali in a mixture.

Alkalimetric (a.) Alt. of Alkalimetrical

Alkalimetrical (a.) Of or pertaining to alkalimetry.

Alkalimetry (n.) The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, or the quantity present in alkaline mixtures.

Alkaline (a.) Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having the properties of an alkali.

Alkalinity (n.) The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property.

Alkalious (a.) Alkaline.

Alkalizate (a.) Alkaline.

Alkalizate (v. t.) To alkalizate.

Alkalization (n.) The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; a conferring of alkaline qualities.

Alkalized (imp. & p. p.) of Alkalize

Alkalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alkalize

Alkalize (v. t.) To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkali to.

Alkaloid (a.) Alt. of Alkaloidal

Alkaloidal (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, alkali.

Alkaloid (n.) An organic base, especially one of a class of substances occurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies of animals.

Alkanet (n.) A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria, which gives a fine deep red color.

Alkanet (n.) A boraginaceous herb (Alkanna tinctoria) yielding the dye; orchanet.

Alkanet (n.) The similar plant Anchusa officinalis; bugloss; also, the American puccoon.

Alkargen (n.) Same as Cacodylic acid.

Alkarsin (n.) A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor, and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called also Cadel's fuming liquid.

Alkazar () See Alcazar.

Alkekengi (n.) An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalis alkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size of a cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also called winter cherry, ground cherry, and strawberry tomato.

Alkermes (n.) A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving its name from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient.

Alkoran (n.) The Mohammedan Scriptures. Same as Alcoran and Koran.

Alkoranic (a.) Same as Alcoranic.

Alkoranist (n.) Same as Alcoranist.

All (a.) The whole quantity, extent, duration, amount, quality, or degree of; the whole; the whole number of; any whatever; every; as, all the wheat; all the land; all the year; all the strength; all happiness; all abundance; loss of all power; beyond all doubt; you will see us all (or all of us).

All (a.) Any.

All (a.) Only; alone; nothing but.

All (adv.) Wholly; completely; altogether; entirely; quite; very; as, all bedewed; my friend is all for amusement.

All (adv.) Even; just. (Often a mere intensive adjunct.)

All (n.) The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing; everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality; everything or every person; as, our all is at stake.

All (conj.) Although; albeit.

Alla breve () With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung faster like four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the time signature by /.

Allah (n.) The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the Mohammedans generally.

All-a-mort (a.) See Alamort.

Allanite (n.) A silicate containing a large amount of cerium. It is usually black in color, opaque, and is related to epidote in form and composition.

Allantoic (a.) Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois.

Allantoid (a.) Alt. of Allantoidal

Allantoidal (a.) Of or pertaining to the allantois.

Allantoidea (n. pl.) The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops an allantois. It includes reptiles, birds, and mammals.

Allantoin (n.) A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in the allantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acid and amniotic acid.

Allantois (n.) Alt. of Allantoid

Allantoid (n.) A membranous appendage of the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles, -- in mammals serving to connect the fetus with the parent; the urinary vesicle.

Allatrate (v. i.) To bark as a dog.

Allayed (imp. & p. p.) of Allay

Allaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allay

Allay (v. t.) To make quiet or put at rest; to pacify or appease; to quell; to calm; as, to allay popular excitement; to allay the tumult of the passions.

Allay (v. t.) To alleviate; to abate; to mitigate; as, to allay the severity of affliction or the bitterness of adversity.

Allay (v. t.) To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside.

Allay (n.) Alleviation; abatement; check.

Allay (n.) Alloy.

Allay (v. t.) To mix (metals); to mix with a baser metal; to alloy; to deteriorate.

Allayer (n.) One who, or that which, allays.

Allayment (n.) An allaying; that which allays; mitigation.

Allecret (n.) A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. by the Swiss.

Allect (v. t.) To allure; to entice.

Allectation (n.) Enticement; allurement.

Allective (a.) Alluring.

Allective (n.) Allurement.

Alledge (v. t.) See Allege.

Allegation (n.) The act of alleging or positively asserting.

Allegation (n.) That which is alleged, asserted, or declared; positive assertion; formal averment

Allegation (n.) A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, -- usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matter undertaken to be proved.

Alleged (imp. & p. p.) of Allege

Alleging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allege

Allege (v. t.) To bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to assert; as, to allege a fact.

Allege (v. t.) To cite or quote; as, to allege the authority of a judge.

Allege (v. t.) To produce or urge as a reason, plea, or excuse; as, he refused to lend, alleging a resolution against lending.

Allege (v. t.) To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble.

Allegeable (a.) Capable of being alleged or affirmed.

Allegeance (n.) Allegation.

Allegement (n.) Allegation.

Alleger (n.) One who affirms or declares.

Allegge (v. t.) See Alegge and Allay.

Allegiance (n.) The tie or obligation, implied or expressed, which a subject owes to his sovereign or government; the duty of fidelity to one's king, government, or state.

Allegiance (n.) Devotion; loyalty; as, allegiance to science.

Allegiant (a.) Loyal.

Allegoric (a.) Alt. of Allegorical

Allegorical (a.) Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative.

Allegorist (n.) One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory.

Allegorization (n.) The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in an allegorical sense.

Allegorized (imp. & p. p.) of Allegorize

Allegorizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allegorize

Allegorize (v. t.) To form or turn into allegory; as, to allegorize the history of a people.

Allegorize (v. t.) To treat as allegorical; to understand in an allegorical sense; as, when a passage in a writer may understood literally or figuratively, he who gives it a figurative sense is said to allegorize it.

Allegorize (v. t.) To use allegory.

Allegorizer (n.) One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; an allegorist.

Allegories (pl. ) of Allegory

Allegory (n.) A figurative sentence or discourse, in which the principal subject is described by another subject resembling it in its properties and circumstances. The real subject is thus kept out of view, and we are left to collect the intentions of the writer or speaker by the resemblance of the secondary to the primary subject.

Allegory (n.) Anything which represents by suggestive resemblance; an emblem.

Allegory (n.) A figure representation which has a meaning beyond notion directly conveyed by the object painted or sculptured.

Allegresse (n.) Joy; gladsomeness.

Allegretto (a.) Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro.

Allegretto (n.) A movement in this time.

Allegro (a.) Brisk, lively.

Allegro (n.) An allegro movement; a quick, sprightly strain or piece.

Alleluia (n.) Alt. of Alleluiah

Alleluiah (n.) An exclamation signifying Praise ye Jehovah. Hence: A song of praise to God. See Hallelujah, the commoner form.

Allemande (n.) A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in the reign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, like those of Bach and Handel.

Allemande (n.) A figure in dancing.

Allemannic (a.) See Alemannic.

Allenarly (adv.) Solely; only.

Aller (a.) Same as Alder, of all.

Allerion (n.) Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings.

Alleviated (imp. & p. p.) of Alleviate

Alleviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alleviate

Alleviate (v. t.) To lighten or lessen the force or weight of.

Alleviate (v. t.) To lighten or lessen (physical or mental troubles); to mitigate, or make easier to be endured; as, to alleviate sorrow, pain, care, etc. ; -- opposed to aggravate.

Alleviate (v. t.) To extenuate; to palliate.

Alleviation (n.) The act of alleviating; a lightening of weight or severity; mitigation; relief.

Alleviation (n.) That which mitigates, or makes more tolerable.

Alleviative (a.) Tending to alleviate.

Alleviative (n.) That which alleviates.

Alleviator (n.) One who, or that which, alleviates.

Alleviatory (a.) Alleviative.

Alleys (pl. ) of Alley

Alley (n.) A narrow passage; especially a walk or passage in a garden or park, bordered by rows of trees or bushes; a bordered way.

Alley (n.) A narrow passage or way in a city, as distinct from a public street.

Alley (n.) A passageway between rows of pews in a church.

Alley (n.) Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than the exit, so as to give the appearance of length.

Alley (n.) The space between two rows of compositors' stands in a printing office.

Alleys (pl. ) of Alley

Alley (n.) A choice taw or marble.

Alleyed (a.) Furnished with alleys; forming an alley.

Alleyway (n.) An alley.

All Fools' Day () The first day of April, a day on which sportive impositions are practiced.

Allfours () A game at cards, called High, Low, Jack, and the Game.

All fours () All four legs of a quadruped; or the two legs and two arms of a person.

All hail (interj.) All health; -- a phrase of salutation or welcome.

All-hail (v. t.) To salute; to greet.

Allhallond (n.) Allhallows.

Allhallow (n.) Alt. of Allhallows

Allhallows (n.) All the saints (in heaven).

Allhallows (n.) All Saints' Day, November 1st.

Allhallow eve () The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.

Allhallowmas (n.) The feast of All Saints.

Allhallown (a.) Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. [Obs.] Allhallown summer. Shak. (i. e., late summer; Indian Summer).

Allhallowtide (n.) The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st.

Allheal (n.) A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to some other plants.

Alliable (a.) Able to enter into alliance.

Alliaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks, etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions.

Alliance (n.) The state of being allied; the act of allying or uniting; a union or connection of interests between families, states, parties, etc., especially between families by marriage and states by compact, treaty, or league; as, matrimonial alliances; an alliance between church and state; an alliance between France and England.

Alliance (n.) Any union resembling that of families or states; union by relationship in qualities; affinity.

Alliance (n.) The persons or parties allied.

Alliance (v. t.) To connect by alliance; to ally.

Alliant (n.) An ally; a confederate.

Allice (n.) Alt. of Allis

Allis (n.) The European shad (Clupea vulgaris); allice shad. See Alose.

Alliciency (n.) Attractive power; attractiveness.

Allicient (a.) That attracts; attracting.

Allicient (n.) That attracts.

Allied (a.) United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.

Alligate (v. t.) To tie; to unite by some tie.

Alligation (n.) The act of tying together or attaching by some bond, or the state of being attached.

Alligation (n.) A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning the compounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients of different qualities or values.

Alligator (n.) A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiar to America. It has a shorter and broader snout than the crocodile, and the large teeth of the lower jaw shut into pits in the upper jaw, which has no marginal notches. Besides the common species of the southern United States, there are allied species in South America.

Alligator (n.) Any machine with strong jaws, one of which opens like the movable jaw of an alligator

Alligator (n.) a form of squeezer for the puddle ball

Alligator (n.) a rock breaker

Alligator (n.) a kind of job press, called also alligator press.

Allignment (n.) See Alignment.

Allineate (v. t.) To align.

Allineation (n.) Alt. of Alineation

Alineation (n.) Alignment; position in a straight line, as of two planets with the sun.

Allision (n.) The act of dashing against, or striking upon.

Alliteral (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by alliteration.

Alliterate (v. t.) To employ or place so as to make alliteration.

Alliterate (v. i.) To compose alliteratively; also, to constitute alliteration.

Alliteration (n.) The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or more words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals; as in the following lines: -

Alliterative (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, alliteration; as, alliterative poetry.

Alliterator (n.) One who alliterates.

Allium (n.) A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive, etc.

Allmouth (n.) The angler.

Allness (n.) Totality; completeness.

Allnight (n.) Light, fuel, or food for the whole night.

Allocate (v. t.) To distribute or assign; to allot.

Allocate (v. t.) To localize.

Allocation (n.) The act of putting one thing to another; a placing; disposition; arrangement.

Allocation (n.) An allotment or apportionment; as, an allocation of shares in a company.

Allocation (n.) The admission of an item in an account, or an allowance made upon an account; -- a term used in the English exchequer.

Allocatur (n.) Allowed. The word allocatur expresses the allowance of a proceeding, writ, order, etc., by a court, judge, or judicial officer.

Allochroic (a.) Changeable in color.

Allochroite (n.) See Garnet.

Allochroous (a.) Changing color.

Allocution (n.) The act or manner of speaking to, or of addressing in words.

Allocution (n.) An address; a hortatory or authoritative address as of a pope to his clergy.

Allod (n.) See Allodium.

Allodial (a.) Pertaining to allodium; freehold; free of rent or service; held independent of a lord paramount; -- opposed to feudal; as, allodial lands; allodial system.

Allodial (a.) Anything held allodially.

Allodialism (n.) The allodial system.

Allodialist (n.) One who holds allodial land.

Allodially (adv.) By allodial tenure.

Allodiary (n.) One who holds an allodium.

Allodium (n.) Freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of the owner; real estate held in absolute independence, without being subject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior. It is thus opposed to feud.

Allogamous (a.) Characterized by allogamy.

Allogamy (n.) Fertilization of the pistil of a plant by pollen from another of the same species; cross-fertilization.

Allogeneous (a.) Different in nature or kind.

Allograph (n.) A writing or signature made by some person other than any of the parties thereto; -- opposed to autograph.

Allomerism (n.) Variability in chemical constitution without variation in crystalline form.

Allomerous (a.) Characterized by allomerism.

Allomorph (n.) Any one of two or more distinct crystalline forms of the same substance; or the substance having such forms; -- as, carbonate of lime occurs in the allomorphs calcite and aragonite.

Allomorph (n.) A variety of pseudomorph which has undergone partial or complete change or substitution of material; -- thus limonite is frequently an allomorph after pyrite.

Allomorphic (a.) Of or pertaining to allomorphism.

Allomorphism (n.) The property which constitutes an allomorph; the change involved in becoming an allomorph.

Allonge (v.) A thrust or pass; a lunge.

Allonge (v.) A slip of paper attached to a bill of exchange for receiving indorsements, when the back of the bill itself is already full; a rider.

Allonge (v. i.) To thrust with a sword; to lunge.

Allonym (n.) The name of another person assumed by the author of a work.

Allonym (n.) A work published under the name of some one other than the author.

Allonymous (a.) Published under the name of some one other than the author.

Alloo (v. t. / i.) To incite dogs by a call; to halloo.

Allopath (n.) An allopathist.

Allopathic (a.) Of or pertaining to allopathy.

Allopathically (adv.) In a manner conformable to allopathy; by allopathic methods.

Allopathist (n.) One who practices allopathy; one who professes allopathy.

Allopathy (n.) That system of medical practice which aims to combat disease by the use of remedies which produce effects different from those produced by the special disease treated; -- a term invented by Hahnemann to designate the ordinary practice, as opposed to homeopathy.

Allophylic (a.) Alt. of Allophylian

Allophylian (a.) Pertaining to a race or a language neither Aryan nor Semitic.

Alloquy (n.) A speaking to another; an address.

Allotted (imp. & p. p.) of Allot

Allotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allot

Allot (v. t.) To distribute by lot.

Allot (v. t.) To distribute, or parcel out in parts or portions; or to distribute to each individual concerned; to assign as a share or lot; to set apart as one's share; to bestow on; to grant; to appoint; as, let every man be contented with that which Providence allots him.

Allotheism (n.) The worship of strange gods.

Allotment (n.) The act of allotting; assignment.

Allotment (n.) That which is allotted; a share, part, or portion granted or distributed; that which is assigned by lot, or by the act of God; anything set apart for a special use or to a distinct party.

Allotment (n.) The allowance of a specific amount of scrip or of a particular thing to a particular person.

Allotriophagy (n.) A depraved appetite; a desire for improper food.

Allotropic (a.) Alt. of Allotropical

Allotropical (a.) Of or pertaining to allotropism.

Allotropicity (n.) Allotropic property or nature.

Allotropism (n.) Alt. of Allotropy

Allotropy (n.) The property of existing in two or more conditions which are distinct in their physical or chemical relations.

Allotropize (v. t.) To change in physical properties but not in substance.

Allottable (a.) Capable of being allotted.

Allottee (n.) One to whom anything is allotted; one to whom an allotment is made.

Allotter (n.) One who allots.

Allottery (n.) Allotment.

Allowed (imp. & p. p.) of Allow

Allowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allow

Allow (v. t.) To praise; to approve of; hence, to sanction.

Allow (v. t.) To like; to be suited or pleased with.

Allow (v. t.) To sanction; to invest; to intrust.

Allow (v. t.) To grant, give, admit, accord, afford, or yield; to let one have; as, to allow a servant his liberty; to allow a free passage; to allow one day for rest.

Allow (v. t.) To own or acknowledge; to accept as true; to concede; to accede to an opinion; as, to allow a right; to allow a claim; to allow the truth of a proposition.

Allow (v. t.) To grant (something) as a deduction or an addition; esp. to abate or deduct; as, to allow a sum for leakage.

Allow (v. t.) To grant license to; to permit; to consent to; as, to allow a son to be absent.

Allow (v. i.) To admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement.

Allowable (a.) Praiseworthy; laudable.

Allowable (a.) Proper to be, or capable of being, allowed; permissible; admissible; not forbidden; not unlawful or improper; as, a certain degree of freedom is allowable among friends.

Allowableness (n.) The quality of being allowable; permissibleness; lawfulness; exemption from prohibition or impropriety.

Allowably (adv.) In an allowable manner.

Allowance (n.) Approval; approbation.

Allowance (n.) The act of allowing, granting, conceding, or admitting; authorization; permission; sanction; tolerance.

Allowance (n.) Acknowledgment.

Allowance (n.) License; indulgence.

Allowance (n.) That which is allowed; a share or portion allotted or granted; a sum granted as a reimbursement, a bounty, or as appropriate for any purpose; a stated quantity, as of food or drink; hence, a limited quantity of meat and drink, when provisions fall short.

Allowance (n.) Abatement; deduction; the taking into account of mitigating circumstances; as, to make allowance for the inexperience of youth.

Allowance (n.) A customary deduction from the gross weight of goods, different in different countries, such as tare and tret.

Allowancing (imp. & p. p.) of Allowance

Allowance (n.) To put upon a fixed allowance (esp. of provisions and drink); to supply in a fixed and limited quantity; as, the captain was obliged to allowance his crew; our provisions were allowanced.

Allowedly (adv.) By allowance; admittedly.

Allower (n.) An approver or abettor.

Allower (n.) One who allows or permits.

Alloxan (n.) An oxidation product of uric acid. It is of a pale reddish color, readily soluble in water or alcohol.

Alloxanate (n.) A combination of alloxanic acid and a base or base or positive radical.

Alloxanic (a.) Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained by the action of soluble alkalies on alloxan.

Alloxantin (n.) A substance produced by acting upon uric with warm and very dilute nitric acid.

Alloy (v. t.) Any combination or compound of metals fused together; a mixture of metals; for example, brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc. But when mercury is one of the metals, the compound is called an amalgam.

Alloy (v. t.) The quality, or comparative purity, of gold or silver; fineness.

Alloy (v. t.) A baser metal mixed with a finer.

Alloy (v. t.) Admixture of anything which lessens the value or detracts from; as, no happiness is without alloy.

Alloyed (imp. & p. p.) of Alloy

Alloying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alloy

Alloy (v. t.) To reduce the purity of by mixing with a less valuable substance; as, to alloy gold with silver or copper, or silver with copper.

Alloy (v. t.) To mix, as metals, so as to form a compound.

Alloy (v. t.) To abate, impair, or debase by mixture; to allay; as, to alloy pleasure with misfortunes.

Alloy (v. t.) To form a metallic compound.

Alloyage (n.) The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination or alloy.

All-possessed (a.) Controlled by an evil spirit or by evil passions; wild.

All Saints () Alt. of All Saints'

All Saints' () The first day of November, called, also, Allhallows or Hallowmas; a feast day kept in honor of all the saints; also, the season of this festival.

All Souls' Day () The second day of November; a feast day of the Roman Catholic church, on which supplications are made for the souls of the faithful dead.

Allspice (n.) The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the West Indies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic; Jamaica pepper; pimento. It has been supposed to combine the flavor of cinnamon, nutmegs, and cloves; and hence the name. The name is also given to other aromatic shrubs; as, the Carolina allspice (Calycanthus floridus); wild allspice (Lindera benzoin), called also spicebush, spicewood, and feverbush.

Allthing (adv.) Altogether.

Alluded (imp. & p. p.) of Allude

Alluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allude

Allude (v. i.) To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; -- followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction.

Allude (v. t.) To compare allusively; to refer (something) as applicable.

Allumette (n.) A match for lighting candles, lamps, etc.

Alluminor (n.) An illuminator of manuscripts and books; a limner.

Allurance (n.) Allurement.

Alluded (imp. & p. p.) of Allure

Alluring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allure

Allure (v. t.) To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by the offer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by something flattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract.

Allure (n.) Allurement.

Allure (n.) Gait; bearing.

Allurement (n.) The act alluring; temptation; enticement.

Allurement (n.) That which allures; any real or apparent good held forth, or operating, as a motive to action; as, the allurements of pleasure, or of honor.

Allurer (n.) One who, or that which, allures.

Alluring (a.) That allures; attracting; charming; tempting.

Allusion (n.) A figurative or symbolical reference.

Allusion (n.) A reference to something supposed to be known, but not explicitly mentioned; a covert indication; indirect reference; a hint.

Allusive (a.) Figurative; symbolical.

Allusive (a.) Having reference to something not fully expressed; containing an allusion.

Allusively (adv.) Figuratively [Obs.]; by way of allusion; by implication, suggestion, or insinuation.

Allusiveness (n.) The quality of being allusive.

Allusory (a.) Allusive.

Alluvial (a.) Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relating to the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place and deposited in another; as, alluvial soil, mud, accumulations, deposits.

Alluvion (n.) Wash or flow of water against the shore or bank.

Alluvion (n.) An overflowing; an inundation; a flood.

Alluvion (n.) Matter deposited by an inundation or the action of flowing water; alluvium.

Alluvion (n.) An accession of land gradually washed to the shore or bank by the flowing of water. See Accretion.

Alluvious (n.) Alluvial.

Alluviums (pl. ) of Alluvium

Alluvia (pl. ) of Alluvium

Alluvium (n.) Deposits of earth, sand, gravel, and other transported matter, made by rivers, floods, or other causes, upon land not permanently submerged beneath the waters of lakes or seas.

Allwhere (adv.) Everywhere.

Allwork (n.) Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork, that is, a general servant.

Allied (imp. & p. p.) of Ally

Allying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ally

Ally (v. t.) To unite, or form a connection between, as between families by marriage, or between princes and states by treaty, league, or confederacy; -- often followed by to or with.

Ally (v. t.) To connect or form a relation between by similitude, resemblance, friendship, or love.

Allies (pl. ) of Ally

Ally (v.) A relative; a kinsman.

Ally (v.) One united to another by treaty or league; -- usually applied to sovereigns or states; a confederate.

Ally (v.) Anything associated with another as a helper; an auxiliary.

Ally (v.) Anything akin to another by structure, etc.

Ally (n.) See Alley, a marble or taw.

Allyl (n.) An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlic and mustard.

Allylene (n.) A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H4, homologous with acetylene; propine.

Alma (n.) Alt. of Almah

Almah (n.) Same as Alme.

Almacantar (n.) Same as Almucantar.

Almacantar (n.) A recently invented instrument for observing the heavenly bodies as they cross a given almacantar circle. See Almucantar.

Almadia (n.) Alt. of Almadie

Almadie (n.) A bark canoe used by the Africans.

Almadie (n.) A boat used at Calicut, in India, about eighty feet long, and six or seven broad.

Almagest (n.) The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which contains nearly all that is known of the astronomical observations and theories of the ancients. The name was extended to other similar works.

Almagra (n.) A fine, deep red ocher, somewhat purplish, found in Spain. It is the sil atticum of the ancients. Under the name of Indian red it is used for polishing glass and silver.

Almain (n.) Alt. of Alman

Almayne (n.) Alt. of Alman

Alman (n.) A German.

Alman (adj.) German.

Alman (adj.) The German language.

Alman (adj.) A kind of dance. See Allemande.

Alma Mater () A college or seminary where one is educated.

Almanac (n.) A book or table, containing a calendar of days, and months, to which astronomical data and various statistics are often added, such as the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses, hours of full tide, stated festivals of churches, terms of courts, etc.

Almandine (n.) The common red variety of garnet.

Alme (n.) Alt. of Almeh

Almeh (n.) An Egyptian dancing girl; an Alma.

Almendron (n.) The lofty Brazil-nut tree.

Almery (n.) See Ambry.

Almesse (n.) See Alms.

Almightful (a.) Alt. of Almightiful

Almightiful (a.) All-powerful; almighty.

Almightily (adv.) With almighty power.

Almightiness (n.) Omnipotence; infinite or boundless power; unlimited might.

Almighty (a.) Unlimited in might; omnipotent; all-powerful; irresistible.

Almighty (a.) Great; extreme; terrible.

Almner (n.) An almoner.

Almond (n.) The fruit of the almond tree.

Almond (n.) The tree that bears the fruit; almond tree.

Almond (n.) Anything shaped like an almond.

Almond (n.) One of the tonsils.

Almond furnace () A kind of furnace used in refining, to separate the metal from cinders and other foreign matter.

Almondine (n.) See Almandine

Almoner (n.) One who distributes alms, esp. the doles and alms of religious houses, almshouses, etc.; also, one who dispenses alms for another, as the almoner of a prince, bishop, etc.

Almonership (n.) The office of an almoner.

Almonries (pl. ) of Almonry

Almonry (n.) The place where an almoner resides, or where alms are distributed.

Almose (n.) Alms.

Almost (adv.) Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.

Almry (n.) See Almonry.

Alms (n. sing. & pl.) Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money, food, or clothing; a gift of charity.

Almsdeed (n.) An act of charity.

Almsfolk (n.) Persons supported by alms; almsmen.

Almsgiver (n.) A giver of alms.

Almsgiving (n.) The giving of alms.

Almshouse (n.) A house appropriated for the use of the poor; a poorhouse.

Almsman (n.) A recipient of alms.

Almsman (n.) A giver of alms.

Almucantar (n.) A small circle of the sphere parallel to the horizon; a circle or parallel of altitude. Two stars which have the same almucantar have the same altitude. See Almacantar.

Almuce (n.) Same as Amice, a hood or cape.

Almude (n.) A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal the Lisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallons U. S. measure. In Turkey the almud is about 1.4 gallons.

Almug (n.) Alt. of Algum

Algum (n.) A tree or wood of the Bible (2 Chron. ii. 8; 1 K. x. 11).

Alnage (n.) Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for such measurement.

Alnager (n.) A measure by the ell; formerly a sworn officer in England, whose duty was to inspect and measure woolen cloth, and fix upon it a seal.

Aloes (pl. ) of Aloe

Aloe (n.) The wood of the agalloch.

Aloe (n.) A genus of succulent plants, some classed as trees, others as shrubs, but the greater number having the habit and appearance of evergreen herbaceous plants; from some of which are prepared articles for medicine and the arts. They are natives of warm countries.

Aloe (n.) The inspissated juice of several species of aloe, used as a purgative.

Aloes wood () See Agalloch.

Aloetic (a.) Consisting chiefly of aloes; of the nature of aloes.

Aloetic (n.) A medicine containing chiefly aloes.

Aloft (adv.) On high; in the air; high above the ground.

Aloft (adv.) In the top; at the mast head, or on the higher yards or rigging; overhead; hence (Fig. and Colloq.), in or to heaven.

Aloft (prep.) Above; on top of.

Alogian (n.) One of an ancient sect who rejected St. John's Gospel and the Apocalypse, which speak of Christ as the Logos.

Alogy (n.) Unreasonableness; absurdity.

Aloin (n.) A bitter purgative principle in aloes.

Alomancy (n.) Divination by means of salt.

Alone (a.) Quite by one's self; apart from, or exclusive of, others; single; solitary; -- applied to a person or thing.

Alone (a.) Of or by itself; by themselves; without any thing more or any one else; without a sharer; only.

Alone (a.) Sole; only; exclusive.

Alone (a.) Hence; Unique; rare; matchless.

Alone (adv.) Solely; simply; exclusively.

Alonely (adv.) Only; merely; singly.

Alonely (a.) Exclusive.

Aloneness (n.) A state of being alone, or without company; solitariness.

Along (adv.) By the length; in a line with the length; lengthwise.

Along (adv.) In a line, or with a progressive motion; onward; forward.

Along (adv.) In company; together.

Along (prep.) By the length of, as distinguished from across.

Along () (Now heard only in the prep. phrase along of.)

Alongshore (adv.) Along the shore or coast.

Alongshoreman (n.) See Longshoreman.

Alongside (adv.) Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as, bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree.

Alongst (prep. & adv.) Along.

Aloof (n.) Same as Alewife.

Aloof (adv.) At or from a distance, but within view, or at a small distance; apart; away.

Aloof (adv.) Without sympathy; unfavorably.

Aloof (prep.) Away from; clear from.

Aloofness (n.) State of being aloof.

Alopecia (n.) Alt. of Alopecy

Alopecy (n.) Loss of the hair; baldness.

Alopecist (n.) A practitioner who tries to prevent or cure baldness.

Alose (v. t.) To praise.

Alose (n.) The European shad (Clupea alosa); -- called also allice shad or allis shad. The name is sometimes applied to the American shad (Clupea sapidissima). See Shad.

Alouatte (n.) One of the several species of howling monkeys of South America. See Howler, 2.

Aloud (adv.) With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly.

Alow (adv.) Below; in a lower part.

Alp (n.) A very high mountain. Specifically, in the plural, the highest chain of mountains in Europe, containing the lofty mountains of Switzerland, etc.

Alp (n.) Fig.: Something lofty, or massive, or very hard to be surmounted.

Alp (n.) A bullfinch.

Alpaca (n.) An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair, supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama.

Alpaca (n.) Wool of the alpaca.

Alpaca (n.) A thin kind of cloth made of the wooly hair of the alpaca, often mixed with silk or with cotton.

Alpen (a.) Of or pertaining to the Alps.

Alpenstock (n.) A long staff, pointed with iron, used in climbing the Alps.

Alpestrine (a.) Pertaining to the Alps, or other high mountains; as, Alpestrine diseases, etc.

Alpha (n.) The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, and hence used to denote the beginning.

Alphabet (n.) The letters of a language arranged in the customary order; the series of letters or signs which form the elements of written language.

Alphabet (n.) The simplest rudiments; elements.

Alphabet (v. t.) To designate by the letters of the alphabet; to arrange alphabetically.

Alphabetarian (n.) A learner of the alphabet; an abecedarian.

Alphabetic (a.) Alt. of Alphabetical

Alphabetical (a.) Pertaining to, furnished with, expressed by, or in the order of, the letters of the alphabet; as, alphabetic characters, writing, languages, arrangement.

Alphabetical (a.) Literal.

Alphabetically (adv.) In an alphabetic manner; in the customary order of the letters.

Alphabetics (n.) The science of representing spoken sounds by letters.

Alphabetism (n.) The expression of spoken sounds by an alphabet.

Alphabetize (v. t.) To arrange alphabetically; as, to alphabetize a list of words.

Alphabetize (v. t.) To furnish with an alphabet.

Al-phitomancy (n.) Divination by means of barley meal.

Alphonsine (a.) Of or relating to Alphonso X., the Wise, King of Castile (1252-1284).

Alpigene (a.) Growing in Alpine regions.

Alpine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Alps, or to any lofty mountain; as, Alpine snows; Alpine plants.

Alpine (a.) Like the Alps; lofty.

Alpinist (n.) A climber of the Alps.

Alpist (n.) Alt. of Alpia

Alpia (n.) The seed of canary grass (Phalaris Canariensis), used for feeding cage birds.

Alquifou (n.) A lead ore found in Cornwall, England, and used by potters to give a green glaze to their wares; potter's ore.

Already (adv.) Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future; by this time; previously.

Als (adv.) Also.

Als (adv.) As.

Alsatian (a.) Pertaining to Alsatia.

Alsatian (n.) An inhabitant of Alsatia or Alsace in Germany, or of Alsatia or White Friars (a resort of debtors and criminals) in London.

Al segno () A direction for the performer to return and recommence from the sign /.

Alsike (n.) A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifolium hybridum.

Also (adv. & conj.) In like manner; likewise.

Also (adv. & conj.) In addition; besides; as well; further; too.

Also (adv. & conj.) Even as; as; so.

Alt (a. & n.) The higher part of the scale. See Alto.

Altaian (a.) Alt. of Altaic

Altaic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Altai, a mountain chain in Central Asia.

Altar (n.) A raised structure (as a square or oblong erection of stone or wood) on which sacrifices are offered or incense burned to a deity.

Altar (n.) In the Christian church, a construction of stone, wood, or other material for the celebration of the Holy Eucharist; the communion table.

Altarage (n.) The offerings made upon the altar, or to a church.

Altarage (n.) The profit which accrues to the priest, by reason of the altar, from the small tithes.

Altarist (n.) A chaplain.

Altarist (n.) A vicar of a church.

Altarpiece (n.) The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar; reredos.

Altarwise (adv.) In the proper position of an altar, that is, at the east of a church with its ends towards the north and south.

Altazimuth (n.) An instrument for taking azimuths and altitudes simultaneously.

Altered (imp. & p. p.) of Alter

Altering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alter

Alter (v. t.) To make otherwise; to change in some respect, either partially or wholly; to vary; to modify.

Alter (v. t.) To agitate; to affect mentally.

Alter (v. t.) To geld.

Alter (v. i.) To become, in some respects, different; to vary; to change; as, the weather alters almost daily; rocks or minerals alter by exposure.

Alterability (n.) The quality of being alterable; alterableness.

Alterable (a.) Capable of being altered.

Alterableness (n.) The quality of being alterable; variableness; alterability.

Alterably (adv.) In an alterable manner.

Alterant (a.) Altering; gradually changing.

Alterant (n.) An alterative.

Alteration (n.) The act of altering or making different.

Alteration (n.) The state of being altered; a change made in the form or nature of a thing; changed condition.

Alterative (a.) Causing ateration.

Alterative (a.) Gradually changing, or tending to change, a morbid state of the functions into one of health.

Alterative (n.) A medicine or treatment which gradually induces a change, and restores healthy functions without sensible evacuations.

Altercated (imp. & p. p.) of Altercate

Altercating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Altercate

Altercate (v. i.) To contend in words; to dispute with zeal, heat, or anger; to wrangle.

Altercation (n.) Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat or anger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest.

Altercative (a.) Characterized by wrangling; scolding.

Alterity (n.) The state or quality of being other; a being otherwise.

Altern (a.) Acting by turns; alternate.

Alternacy (n.) Alternateness; alternation.

Alternant (v. t.) Composed of alternate layers, as some rocks.

Alternate (a.) Being or succeeding by turns; one following the other in succession of time or place; by turns first one and then the other; hence, reciprocal.

Alternate (a.) Designating the members in a series, which regularly intervene between the members of another series, as the odd or even numbers of the numerals; every other; every second; as, the alternate members 1, 3, 5, 7, etc. ; read every alternate line.

Alternate (a.) Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of the stem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence.

Alternate (n.) That which alternates with something else; vicissitude.

Alternate (n.) A substitute; one designated to take the place of another, if necessary, in performing some duty.

Alternate (n.) A proportion derived from another proportion by interchanging the means.

Alternated (imp. & p. p.) of Alternate

Alternating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alternate

Alternate (v. t.) To perform by turns, or in succession; to cause to succeed by turns; to interchange regularly.

Alternate (v. i.) To happen, succeed, or act by turns; to follow reciprocally in place or time; -- followed by with; as, the flood and ebb tides alternate with each other.

Alternate (v. i.) To vary by turns; as, the land alternates between rocky hills and sandy plains.

Alternately (adv.) In reciprocal succession; succeeding by turns; in alternate order.

Alternately (adv.) By alternation; when, in a proportion, the antecedent term is compared with antecedent, and consequent.

Alternateness (n.) The quality of being alternate, or of following by turns.

Alternation (n.) The reciprocal succession of things in time or place; the act of following and being followed by turns; alternate succession, performance, or occurrence; as, the alternation of day and night, cold and heat, summer and winter, hope and fear.

Alternation (n.) Permutation.

Alternation (n.) The response of the congregation speaking alternately with the minister.

Alternative (a.) Offering a choice of two things.

Alternative (a.) Disjunctive; as, an alternative conjunction.

Alternative (a.) Alternate; reciprocal.

Alternative (n.) An offer of two things, one of which may be chosen, but not both; a choice between two things, so that if one is taken, the other must be left.

Alternative (n.) Either of two things or propositions offered to one's choice. Thus when two things offer a choice of one only, the two things are called alternatives.

Alternative (n.) The course of action or the thing offered in place of another.

Alternative (n.) A choice between more than two things; one of several things offered to choose among.

Alternatively (adv.) In the manner of alternatives, or that admits the choice of one out of two things.

Alternativeness (n.) The quality of being alternative, or of offering a choice between two.

Alternity (n.) Succession by turns; alternation.

Althaea (n.) Alt. of Althea

Althea (n.) A genus of plants of the Mallow family. It includes the officinal marsh mallow, and the garden hollyhocks.

Althea (n.) An ornamental shrub (Hibiscus Syriacus) of the Mallow family.

Altheine (n.) Asparagine.

Altho (conj.) Although.

Althorn (n.) An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in military music, often replacing the French horn.

Although (conj.) Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding; though.

Altiloquence (n.) Lofty speech; pompous language.

Altiloquent (a.) High-sounding; pompous in speech.

Altimeter (n.) An instrument for taking altitudes, as a quadrant, sextant, etc.

Altimetry (n.) The art of measuring altitudes, or heights.

Altincar (n.) See Tincal.

Altiscope (n.) An arrangement of lenses and mirrors which enables a person to see an object in spite of intervening objects.

Altisonant (a.) High-sounding; lofty or pompous.

Altisonous (a.) Altisonant.

Altissimo (n.) The part or notes situated above F in alt.

Altitude (n.) Space extended upward; height; the perpendicular elevation of an object above its foundation, above the ground, or above a given level, or of one object above another; as, the altitude of a mountain, or of a bird above the top of a tree.

Altitude (n.) The elevation of a point, or star, or other celestial object, above the horizon, measured by the arc of a vertical circle intercepted between such point and the horizon. It is either true or apparent; true when measured from the rational or real horizon, apparent when from the sensible or apparent horizon.

Altitude (n.) The perpendicular distance from the base of a figure to the summit, or to the side parallel to the base; as, the altitude of a triangle, pyramid, parallelogram, frustum, etc.

Altitude (n.) Height of degree; highest point or degree.

Altitude (n.) Height of rank or excellence; superiority.

Altitude (n.) Elevation of spirits; heroics; haughty airs.

Altitudinal (a.) Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements.

Altitudinarian (a.) Lofty in doctrine, aims, etc.

Altivolant (a.) Flying high.

Altos (pl. ) of Alto

Alto (n.) Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor, voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices, between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifies the tenor.

Alto (n.) An alto singer.

Altogether (adv.) All together; conjointly.

Altogether (adv.) Without exception; wholly; completely.

Altometer (n.) A theodolite.

Alto-relievo (n.) Alto-rilievo.

Alto-rilievos (pl. ) of Alto-rilievo

Alto-rilievo (n.) High relief; sculptured work in which the figures project more than half their thickness; as, this figure is an alto-rilievo or in alto-rilievo.

Altrical (a.) Like the articles.

Altrices (n. pl.) Nursers, -- a term applied to those birds whose young are hatched in a very immature and helpless condition, so as to require the care of their parents for some time; -- opposed to praecoces.

Altruism (n.) Regard for others, both natural and moral; devotion to the interests of others; brotherly kindness; -- opposed to egoism or selfishness.

Altruist (n.) One imbued with altruism; -- opposed to egoist.

Altruistic (a.) Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to egoistic or selfish.

Aludel (n.) One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in succession; -- used in the process of sublimation.

Alula (n.) A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard.

Alular (a.) Pertaining to the alula.

Alum (n.) A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element (esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium. It has twenty-four molecules of water of crystallization.

Alum (v. t.) To steep in, or otherwise impregnate with, a solution of alum; to treat with alum.

Alumen (n.) Alum.

Alumina (n.) One of the earths, consisting of two parts of aluminium and three of oxygen, Al2O3.

Aluminate (n.) A compound formed from the hydrate of aluminium by the substitution of a metal for the hydrogen.

Aluminated (a.) Combined with alumina.

Alumine (n.) Alumina.

Aluminic (a.) Of or containing aluminium; as, aluminic phosphate.

Aluminiferous (a.) Containing alum.

Aluminiform (a.) Having the form of alumina.

Aluminium (n.) The metallic base of alumina. This metal is white, but with a bluish tinge, and is remarkable for its resistance to oxidation, and for its lightness, having a specific gravity of about 2.6. Atomic weight 27.08. Symbol Al.

Aluminize (v. t.) To treat or impregnate with alum; to alum.

Aluminous (a.) Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminous minerals, aluminous solution.

Aluminum (n.) See Aluminium.

Alumish (a.) Somewhat like alum.

Alumnae (pl. ) of Alumna

Alumna (n. fem.) A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college.

Alumni (pl. ) of Alumnus

Alumnus (n.) A pupil; especially, a graduate of a college or other seminary of learning.

Alum root () A North American herb (Heuchera Americana) of the Saxifrage family, whose root has astringent properties.

Alum schist () Alt. of Alum shale

Alum shale () A variety of shale or clay slate, containing iron pyrites, the decomposition of which leads to the formation of alum, which often effloresces on the rock.

Alum stone () A subsulphate of alumina and potash; alunite.

Alunite (n.) Alum stone.

Alunogen (n.) A white fibrous mineral frequently found on the walls of mines and quarries, chiefly hydrous sulphate of alumina; -- also called feather alum, and hair salt.

Alure (n.) A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds.

Alutaceous (a.) Leathery.

Alutaceous (a.) Of a pale brown color; leather-yellow.

Alutation (n.) The tanning or dressing of leather.

Alvearies (pl. ) of Alveary

Alveary (n.) A beehive, or something resembling a beehive.

Alveary (n.) The hollow of the external ear.

Alveated (a.) Formed or vaulted like a beehive.

Alveolar (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells, sacs, or sockets.

Alveolary (a.) Alveolar.

Alveolate (a.) Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb.

Alveole (n.) Same as Alveolus.

Alveoliform (a.) Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, or cavities.

Alveoli (pl. ) of Alveolus

Alveolus (n.) A cell in a honeycomb.

Alveolus (n.) A small cavity in a coral, shell, or fossil

Alveolus (n.) A small depression, sac, or vesicle, as the socket of a tooth, the air cells of the lungs, the ultimate saccules of glands, etc.

Alvei (pl. ) of Alveus

Alveus (n.) The channel of a river.

Alvine (a.) Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines; as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions.

Alway (adv.) Always.

Always (adv.) At all times; ever; perpetually; throughout all time; continually; as, God is always the same.

Always (adv.) Constancy during a certain period, or regularly at stated intervals; invariably; uniformly; -- opposed to sometimes or occasionally.

Alyssum (n.) A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort. The sweet alyssum (A. maritimum), cultivated for bouquets, bears small, white, sweet-scented flowers.

Am () The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mode, present tense. See Be.

Amability (n.) Lovableness.

Amacratic (a.) Amasthenic.

Amadavat (n.) The strawberry finch, a small Indian song bird (Estrelda amandava), commonly caged and kept for fighting. The female is olive brown; the male, in summer, mostly crimson; -- called also red waxbill.

Amadou (n.) A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletus and Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It has been employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is as tinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strong solution of niter.

Amain (n.) With might; with full force; vigorously; violently; exceedingly.

Amain (n.) At full speed; in great haste; also, at once.

Amain (v. t.) To lower, as a sail, a yard, etc.

Amain (v. i.) To lower the topsail, in token of surrender; to yield.

Amalgam (n.) An alloy of mercury with another metal or metals; as, an amalgam of tin, bismuth, etc.

Amalgam (n.) A mixture or compound of different things.

Amalgam (n.) A native compound of mercury and silver.

Amalgam (v. t. / i.) To amalgamate.

Amalgama (n.) Same as Amalgam.

Amalgamated (imp. & p. p.) of Amalgamate

Amalgamating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amalgamate

Amalgamate (v. t.) To compound or mix, as quicksilver, with another metal; to unite, combine, or alloy with mercury.

Amalgamate (v. t.) To mix, so as to make a uniform compound; to unite or combine; as, to amalgamate two races; to amalgamate one race with another.

Amalgamate (v. i.) To unite in an amalgam; to blend with another metal, as quicksilver.

Amalgamate (v. i.) To coalesce, as a result of growth; to combine into a uniform whole; to blend; as, two organs or parts amalgamate.

Amalgamate (a.) Alt. of Amalgamated

Amalgamated (a.) Coalesced; united; combined.

Amalgamation (n.) The act or operation of compounding mercury with another metal; -- applied particularly to the process of separating gold and silver from their ores by mixing them with mercury.

Amalgamation (n.) The mixing or blending of different elements, races, societies, etc.; also, the result of such combination or blending; a homogeneous union.

Amalgamative (a.) Characterized by amalgamation.

Amalgamator (n.) One who, or that which, amalgamates. Specifically: A machine for separating precious metals from earthy particles by bringing them in contact with a body of mercury with which they form an amalgam.

Amalgamize (v. t.) To amalgamate.

Amandine (n.) The vegetable casein of almonds.

Amandine (n.) A kind of cold cream prepared from almonds, for chapped hands, etc.

Amanitine (n.) The poisonous principle of some fungi.

Amanuenses (pl. ) of Amanuensis

Amanuensis (n.) A person whose employment is to write what another dictates, or to copy what another has written.

Amaracus (n.) A fragrant flower.

Amarant (n.) Amaranth, 1.

Amarantaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the amaranth is the type.

Amaranth (n.) An imaginary flower supposed never to fade.

Amaranth (n.) A genus of ornamental annual plants (Amaranthus) of many species, with green, purplish, or crimson flowers.

Amaranth (n.) A color inclining to purple.

Amaranthine (a.) Of or pertaining to amaranth.

Amaranthine (a.) Unfading, as the poetic amaranth; undying.

Amaranthine (a.) Of a purplish color.

Amaranthus (n.) Alt. of Amarantus

Amarantus (n.) Same as Amaranth.

Amarine (n.) A characteristic crystalline substance, obtained from oil of bitter almonds.

Amaritude (n.) Bitterness.

Amaryllidaceous (a.) Alt. of Amaryllideous

Amaryllideous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants differing from the lily family chiefly in having the ovary below the /etals. The narcissus and daffodil are members of this family.

Amaryllis (n.) A pastoral sweetheart.

Amaryllis (n.) A family of plants much esteemed for their beauty, including the narcissus, jonquil, daffodil, agave, and others.

Amaryllis (n.) A genus of the same family, including the Belladonna lily.

Amassed (imp. & p. p.) of Amass

Amassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amass

Amass (v. t.) To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of; to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass words or phrases.

Amass (n.) A mass; a heap.

Amassable (a.) Capable of being amassed.

Amasser (n.) One who amasses.

Amassette (n.) An instrument of horn used for collecting painters' colors on the stone in the process of grinding.

Amassment (n.) An amassing; a heap collected; a large quantity or number brought together; an accumulation.

Amasthenic (a.) Uniting the chemical rays of light into one focus, as a certain kind of lens; amacratic.

Amate (v. t.) To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt.

Amate (v. t.) To be a mate to; to match.

Amateur (n.) A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science as to music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, from taste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally.

Amateurish (a.) In the style of an amateur; superficial or defective like the work of an amateur.

Amateurism (n.) The practice, habit, or work of an amateur.

Amateurship (n.) The quality or character of an amateur.

Amative (a.) Full of love; amatory.

Amativeness (n.) The faculty supposed to influence sexual desire; propensity to love.

Amatorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as, amatorial verses.

Amatorially (adv.) In an amatorial manner.

Amatorian (a.) Amatory.

Amatorious (a.) Amatory.

Amatory (a.) Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as, amatory potions.

Amaurosis (n.) A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the optic nerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- called also gutta serena, the drop serene of Milton.

Amaurotic (a.) Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics of amaurosis.

Amazed (imp. & p. p.) of Amaze

Amazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amaze

Amaze (v. t.) To bewilder; to stupefy; to bring into a maze.

Amaze (v. t.) To confound, as by fear, wonder, extreme surprise; to overwhelm with wonder; to astound; to astonish greatly.

Amaze (v. i.) To be astounded.

Amaze (v. t.) Bewilderment, arising from fear, surprise, or wonder; amazement.

Amazedly (adv.) In amazement; with confusion or astonishment.

Amazedness (n.) The state of being amazed, or confounded with fear, surprise, or wonder.

Amazeful (a.) Full of amazement.

Amazement (n.) The condition of being amazed; bewilderment [Obs.]; overwhelming wonder, as from surprise, sudden fear, horror, or admiration.

Amazement (n.) Frenzy; madness.

Amazing (a.) Causing amazement; very wonderful; as, amazing grace.

Amazon (n.) One of a fabulous race of female warriors in Scythia; hence, a female warrior.

Amazon (n.) A tall, strong, masculine woman; a virago.

Amazon (n.) A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genus Chrysotis

Amazonian (a.) Pertaining to or resembling an Amazon; of masculine manners; warlike.

Amazonian (a.) Of or pertaining to the river Amazon in South America, or to its valley.

Amazonite (n.) Alt. of Amazon stone

Amazon stone (n.) A variety of feldspar, having a verdigris-green color.

Amb- () Alt. of Ambi-

Ambi- () A prefix meaning about, around; -- used in words derived from the Latin.

Ambages (n. pl.) A circuit; a winding. Hence: Circuitous way or proceeding; quibble; circumlocution; indirect mode of speech.

Ambaginous (a.) Ambagious.

Ambagious (a.) Circumlocutory; circuitous.

Ambagitory (a.) Ambagious.

Ambassade (ambassade.) Alt. of Embassade

Embassade (ambassade.) The mission of an ambassador.

Embassade (ambassade.) An embassy.

Ambassador (n.) Alt. of Embassador

Embassador (n.) A minister of the highest rank sent to a foreign court to represent there his sovereign or country.

Embassador (n.) An official messenger and representative.

Ambassadorial (a.) Of or pertaining to an ambassador.

Ambassadorship (n.) The state, office, or functions of an ambassador.

Ambassadress (n.) A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador.

Ambassage (n.) Same as Embassage.

Ambassy (n.) See Embassy, the usual spelling.

Amber (n.) A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as a fossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore in many places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipe mouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. By friction, it becomes strongly electric.

Amber (n.) Amber color, or anything amber-colored; a clear light yellow; as, the amber of the sky.

Amber (n.) Ambergris.

Amber (n.) The balsam, liquidambar.

Amber (a.) Consisting of amber; made of amber.

Amber (a.) Resembling amber, especially in color; amber-colored.

Ambered (p. p. & p. a.) of Amber

Amber (v. t.) To scent or flavor with ambergris; as, ambered wine.

Amber (v. t.) To preserve in amber; as, an ambered fly.

Amber fish () A fish of the southern Atlantic coast (Seriola Carolinensis.)

Ambergrease (n.) See Ambergris.

Ambergris (n.) A substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in the Indian Ocean and other parts of the tropics, and also as a morbid secretion in the intestines of the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus), which is believed to be in all cases its true origin. In color it is white, ash-gray, yellow, or black, and often variegated like marble. The floating masses are sometimes from sixty to two hundred and twenty-five pounds in weight. It is wholly volatilized as a white vapor at 212 Fahrenheit, and is highly valued in perfumery.

Amber room () A room formerly in the Czar's Summer Palace in Russia, which was richly decorated with walls and fixtures made from amber. The amber was removed by occupying German troops during the Second World War and has, as of 1997, never been recovered. The room is being recreated from old photographs by Russian artisans.

Amber seed () Seed of the Hibiscus abelmoschus, somewhat resembling millet, brought from Egypt and the West Indies, and having a flavor like that of musk; musk seed.

Amber tree () A species of Anthospermum, a shrub with evergreen leaves, which, when bruised, emit a fragrant odor.

Ambes-as (n.) Ambs-ace.

Ambidexter (a.) Using both hands with equal ease.

Ambidexter (n.) A person who uses both hands with equal facility.

Ambidexter (n.) A double-dealer; one equally ready to act on either side in party disputes.

Ambidexter (n.) A juror who takes money from both parties for giving his verdict.

Ambidexterity (n.) The quality of being ambidextrous; the faculty of using both hands with equal facility.

Ambidexterity (n.) Versatility; general readiness; as, ambidexterity of argumentation.

Ambidexterity (n.) Double-dealing.

Ambidexterity (n.) A juror's taking of money from the both parties for a verdict.

Ambidextral (a.) Pertaining equally to the right-hand side and the left-hand side.

Ambidextrous (a.) Having the faculty of using both hands with equal ease.

Ambidextrous (a.) Practicing or siding with both parties.

Ambidextrously (adv.) In an ambidextrous manner; cunningly.

Ambidextrousness (n.) The quality of being ambidextrous; ambidexterity.

Ambient (a.) Encompassing on all sides; circumfused; investing.

Ambient (n.) Something that surrounds or invests; as, air . . . being a perpetual ambient.

Ambigenous (a.) Of two kinds.

Ambigenous (a.) Partaking of two natures, as the perianth of some endogenous plants, where the outer surface is calycine, and the inner petaloid.

Ambigu (n.) An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at the same time.

Ambiguities (pl. ) of Ambiguity

Ambiguity (n.) The quality or state of being ambiguous; doubtfulness or uncertainty, particularly as to the signification of language, arising from its admitting of more than one meaning; an equivocal word or expression.

Ambiguous (a.) Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect to signification; capable of being understood in either of two or more possible senses; equivocal; as, an ambiguous course; an ambiguous expression.

Ambiguously (adv.) In an ambiguous manner; with doubtful meaning.

Ambiguousness (n.) Ambiguity.

Ambilevous (a.) Left-handed on both sides; clumsy; -- opposed to ambidexter.

Ambiloquy (n.) Doubtful or ambiguous language.

Ambiparous (a.) Characterized by containing the rudiments of both flowers and leaves; -- applied to a bud.

Ambit (n.) Circuit or compass.

Ambition (n.) The act of going about to solicit or obtain an office, or any other object of desire; canvassing.

Ambition (n.) An eager, and sometimes an inordinate, desire for preferment, honor, superiority, power, or the attainment of something.

Ambition (v. t.) To seek after ambitiously or eagerly; to covet.

Ambitionist (n.) One excessively ambitious.

Ambitionless (a.) Devoid of ambition.

Ambitious (a.) Possessing, or controlled by, ambition; greatly or inordinately desirous of power, honor, office, superiority, or distinction.

Ambitious (a.) Strongly desirous; -- followed by of or the infinitive; as, ambitious to be or to do something.

Ambitious (a.) Springing from, characterized by, or indicating, ambition; showy; aspiring; as, an ambitious style.

Ambitiously (adv.) In an ambitious manner.

Ambitiousness (n.) The quality of being ambitious; ambition; pretentiousness.

Ambitus (n.) The exterior edge or border of a thing, as the border of a leaf, or the outline of a bivalve shell.

Ambitus (n.) A canvassing for votes.

Ambled (imp. & p. p.) of Amble

Ambling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amble

Amble (v. i.) To go at the easy gait called an amble; -- applied to the horse or to its rider.

Amble (v. i.) To move somewhat like an ambling horse; to go easily or without hard shocks.

Amble (n.) A peculiar gait of a horse, in which both legs on the same side are moved at the same time, alternating with the legs on the other side.

Amble (n.) A movement like the amble of a horse.

Ambler (n.) A horse or a person that ambles.

Amblingly (adv.) With an ambling gait.

Amblotic (a.) Tending to cause abortion.

Amblygon (n.) An obtuse-angled figure, esp. and obtuse-angled triangle.

Amblygonal (a.) Obtuse-angled.

Amblyopia (n.) Alt. of Amblyopy

Amblyopy (n.) Weakness of sight, without and opacity of the cornea, or of the interior of the eye; the first degree of amaurosis.

Amblyopic (a.) Of or pertaining to amblyopy.

Amblypoda (n. pl.) A group of large, extinct, herbivorous mammals, common in the Tertiary formation of the United States.

Ambos (pl. ) of Ambo

Ambo (n.) A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christian churches.

Ambon (n.) Same as Ambo.

Amboyna wood () A beautiful mottled and curled wood, used in cabinetwork. It is obtained from the Pterocarpus Indicus of Amboyna, Borneo, etc.

Ambreate (n.) A salt formed by the combination of ambreic acid with a base or positive radical.

Ambreic (a.) Of or pertaining to ambrein; -- said of a certain acid produced by digesting ambrein in nitric acid.

Ambrein (n.) A fragrant substance which is the chief constituent of ambergris.

Ambrite (n.) A fossil resin occurring in large masses in New Zealand.

Ambrose (n.) A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3.

Ambrosia (n.) The fabled food of the gods (as nectar was their drink), which conferred immortality upon those who partook of it.

Ambrosia (n.) An unguent of the gods.

Ambrosia (n.) A perfumed unguent, salve, or draught; something very pleasing to the taste or smell.

Ambrosia (n.) Formerly, a kind of fragrant plant; now (Bot.), a genus of plants, including some coarse and worthless weeds, called ragweed, hogweed, etc.

Ambrosiac (a.) Having the qualities of ambrosia; delicious.

Ambrosial (a.) Consisting of, or partaking of the nature of, ambrosia; delighting the taste or smell; delicious.

Ambrosial (a.) Divinely excellent or beautiful.

Ambrosially (adv.) After the manner of ambrosia; delightfully.

Ambrosian (a.) Ambrosial.

Ambrosian (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Ambrose; as, the Ambrosian office, or ritual, a formula of worship in the church of Milan, instituted by St. Ambrose.

Ambrosin (n.) An early coin struck by the dukes of Milan, and bearing the figure of St. Ambrose on horseback.

Ambrotype (n.) A picture taken on a plate of prepared glass, in which the lights are represented in silver, and the shades are produced by a dark background visible through the unsilvered portions of the glass.

Ambries (pl. ) of Ambry

Ambry (n.) In churches, a kind of closet, niche, cupboard, or locker for utensils, vestments, etc.

Ambry (n.) A store closet, as a pantry, cupboard, etc.

Ambry (n.) Almonry.

Ambs-ace (n.) Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence: Bad luck; anything of no account or value.

Ambulacral (a.) Of or pertaining to ambulacra; avenuelike; as, the ambulacral ossicles, plates, spines, and suckers of echinoderms.

Ambulacriform (a.) Having the form of ambulacra.

Ambulacra (pl. ) of Ambulacrum

Ambulacrum (n.) One of the radical zones of echinoderms, along which run the principal nerves, blood vessels, and water tubes. These zones usually bear rows of locomotive suckers or tentacles, which protrude from regular pores. In star fishes they occupy the grooves along the under side of the rays.

Ambulacrum (n.) One of the suckers on the feet of mites.

Ambulance (n.) A field hospital, so organized as to follow an army in its movements, and intended to succor the wounded as soon as possible. Often used adjectively; as, an ambulance wagon; ambulance stretcher; ambulance corps.

Ambulance (n.) An ambulance wagon or cart for conveying the wounded from the field, or to a hospital.

Ambulant (a.) Walking; moving from place to place.

Ambulate (v. i.) To walk; to move about.

Ambulation (n.) The act of walking.

Ambulative (a.) Walking.

Ambulator (n.) One who walks about; a walker.

Ambulator (n.) A beetle of the genus Lamia.

Ambulator (n.) A genus of birds, or one of this genus.

Ambulator (n.) An instrument for measuring distances; -- called also perambulator.

Ambulatorial (a.) Ambulatory; fitted for walking.

Ambulatory (a.) Of or pertaining to walking; having the faculty of walking; formed or fitted for walking; as, an ambulatory animal.

Ambulatory (a.) Accustomed to move from place to place; not stationary; movable; as, an ambulatory court, which exercises its jurisdiction in different places.

Ambulatory (a.) Pertaining to a walk.

Ambulatory (a.) Not yet fixed legally, or settled past alteration; alterable; as, the dispositions of a will are ambulatory until the death of the testator.

Ambulatories (pl. ) of Ambulatory

Ambulatory (n.) A place to walk in, whether in the open air, as the gallery of a cloister, or within a building.

Amburry (n.) Same as Anbury.

Ambuscade (v. t.) A lying in a wood, concealed, for the purpose of attacking an enemy by surprise. Hence: A lying in wait, and concealed in any situation, for a like purpose; a snare laid for an enemy; an ambush.

Ambuscade (v. t.) A place in which troops lie hid, to attack an enemy unexpectedly.

Ambuscade (v. t.) The body of troops lying in ambush.

Ambuscaded (imp. & p. p.) of Ambuscade

Ambuscading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ambuscade

Ambuscade (v. t.) To post or conceal in ambush; to ambush.

Ambuscade (v. t.) To lie in wait for, or to attack from a covert or lurking place; to waylay.

Ambuscade (v. i.) To lie in ambush.

Ambuscado (n.) Ambuscade.

Ambuscadoed (p. p.) Posted in ambush; ambuscaded.

Ambush (v. t.) A disposition or arrangement of troops for attacking an enemy unexpectedly from a concealed station. Hence: Unseen peril; a device to entrap; a snare.

Ambush (v. t.) A concealed station, where troops or enemies lie in wait to attack by surprise.

Ambush (v. t.) The troops posted in a concealed place, for attacking by surprise; liers in wait.

Ambushed (imp. & p. p.) of Ambush

Ambushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ambush

Ambush (v. t.) To station in ambush with a view to surprise an enemy.

Ambush (v. t.) To attack by ambush; to waylay.

Ambush (v. i.) To lie in wait, for the purpose of attacking by surprise; to lurk.

Ambusher (n.) One lying in ambush.

Ambushment (v. t.) An ambush.

Ambustion (n.) A burn or scald.

Amebean (a.) See Am/bean.

Ameer (n.) Alt. of Amir

Amir (n.) Emir.

Amir (n.) One of the Mohammedan nobility of Afghanistan and Scinde.

Amel (v. t.) Enamel.

Amel (v. t.) To enamel.

Amelcorn (n.) A variety of wheat from which starch is produced; -- called also French rice.

Ameliorable (a.) Capable of being ameliorated.

Ameliorated (imp. & p. p.) of Ameliorate

Ameliorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ameliorate

Ameliorate (v. t.) To make better; to improve; to meliorate.

Ameliorate (v. i.) To grow better; to meliorate; as, wine ameliorates by age.

Amelioration (n.) The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated; making or becoming better; improvement; melioration.

Ameliorative (a.) Tending to ameliorate; producing amelioration or improvement; as, ameliorative remedies, efforts.

Ameliorator (n.) One who ameliorates.

Amen (interj., adv., & n.) An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be it. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief. When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily.

Amen (v. t.) To say Amen to; to sanction fully.

Amenability (n.) The quality of being amenable; amenableness.

Amenable (a.) Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband.

Amenable (a.) Liable to be brought to account or punishment; answerable; responsible; accountable; as, amenable to law.

Amenable (a.) Liable to punishment, a charge, a claim, etc.

Amenable (a.) Willing to yield or submit; responsive; tractable.

Amenableness (n.) The quality or state of being amenable; liability to answer charges; answerableness.

Amenably (adv.) In an amenable manner.

Amenage (v. t.) To manage.

Amenance (n.) Behavior; bearing.

Amended (imp. & p. p.) of Amend

Amending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amend

Amend (v. t.) To change or modify in any way for the better

Amend (v. t.) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous, faulty, and the like;

Amend (v. t.) by supplying deficiencies;

Amend (v. t.) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed; to rectify.

Amend (v. i.) To grow better by rectifying something wrong in manners or morals; to improve.

Amendable (a.) Capable of being amended; as, an amendable writ or error.

Amendatory (a.) Supplying amendment; corrective; emendatory.

Amende (n.) A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation.

Amender (n.) One who amends.

Amendful (a.) Much improving.

Amendment (n.) An alteration or change for the better; correction of a fault or of faults; reformation of life by quitting vices.

Amendment (n.) In public bodies; Any alternation made or proposed to be made in a bill or motion by adding, changing, substituting, or omitting.

Amendment (n.) Correction of an error in a writ or process.

Amends (n. sing. & pl.) Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation.

Amenities (pl. ) of Amenity

Amenity (n.) The quality of being pleasant or agreeable, whether in respect to situation, climate, manners, or disposition; pleasantness; civility; suavity; gentleness.

Amenorrhoea (n.) Retention or suppression of the menstrual discharge.

Amenorrhoeal (a.) Pertaining to amenorrhoea.

A mensa et thoro () A kind of divorce which does not dissolve the marriage bond, but merely authorizes a separate life of the husband and wife.

Ament (n.) A species of inflorescence; a catkin.

Amentaceous (a.) Resembling, or consisting of, an ament or aments; as, the chestnut has an amentaceous inflorescence.

Amentaceous (a.) Bearing aments; having flowers arranged in aments; as, amentaceous plants.

Amentia (n.) Imbecility; total want of understanding.

Amentiferous (a.) Bearing catkins.

Amentiform (a.) Shaped like a catkin.

Amenta (pl. ) of Amentum

Amentum (n.) Same as Ament.

Amenuse (v. t.) To lessen.

Amerced (imp. & p. p.) of Amerce

Amercing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amerce

Amerce (v. t.) To punish by a pecuniary penalty, the amount of which is not fixed by law, but left to the discretion of the court; as, the amerced the criminal in the sum on the hundred dollars.

Amerce (v. t.) To punish, in general; to mulct.

Amerceable (a.) Liable to be amerced.

Amercement (n.) The infliction of a penalty at the discretion of the court; also, a mulct or penalty thus imposed. It differs from a fine,in that the latter is, or was originally, a fixed and certain sum prescribed by statue for an offense; but an amercement is arbitrary. Hence, the act or practice of affeering. [See Affeer.]

Amercer (n.) One who amerces.

Amerciament (n.) Same as Amercement.

American (a.) Of or pertaining to America; as, the American continent: American Indians.

American (a.) Of or pertaining to the United States.

American (n.) A native of America; -- originally applied to the aboriginal inhabitants, but now applied to the descendants of Europeans born in America, and especially to the citizens of the United States.

Americanism (n.) Attachment to the United States.

Americanism (n.) A custom peculiar to the United States or to America; an American characteristic or idea.

Americanism (n.) A word or phrase peculiar to the United States.

Americanization (n.) The process of Americanizing.

Americanizer (imp. & p. p.) of Americanize

Americanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Americanize

Americanize (v. t.) To render American; to assimilate to the Americans in customs, ideas, etc.; to stamp with American characteristics.

Ames-ace (n.) Same as Ambs-ace.

Amess (n.) Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice.

Ametabola (n. pl.) A group of insects which do not undergo any metamorphosis.

Ametabolian (a.) Of or pertaining to insects that do undergo any metamorphosis.

Ametabolic (a.) Alt. of Ametabolous

Ametabolous (a.) Not undergoing any metamorphosis; as, ametabolic insects.

Amethodist (n.) One without method; a quack.

Amethyst () A variety of crystallized quartz, of a purple or bluish violet color, of different shades. It is much used as a jeweler's stone.

Amethyst () A purple color in a nobleman's escutcheon, or coat of arms.

Amethystine (a.) Resembling amethyst, especially in color; bluish violet.

Amethystine (a.) Composed of, or containing, amethyst.

Ametropia (n.) Any abnormal condition of the refracting powers of the eye.

Amharic (a.) Of or pertaining to Amhara, a division of Abyssinia; as, the Amharic language is closely allied to the Ethiopic.

Amharic (n.) The Amharic language (now the chief language of Abyssinia).

Amia (n.) A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined to North America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie, and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin.

Amiability (n.) The quality of being amiable; amiableness; sweetness of disposition.

Amiable (a.) Lovable; lovely; pleasing.

Amiable (a.) Friendly; kindly; sweet; gracious; as, an amiable temper or mood; amiable ideas.

Amiable (a.) Possessing sweetness of disposition; having sweetness of temper, kind-heartedness, etc., which causes one to be liked; as, an amiable woman.

Amiable (a.) Done out of love.

Amiableness (n.) The quality of being amiable; amiability.

Amiably (adv.) In an amiable manner.

Amianth (n.) See Amianthus.

Amianthiform (a.) Resembling amianthus in form.

Amianthoid (a.) Resembling amianthus.

Amianthus (n.) Earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus.

Amic (a.) Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix; as, amic acid; phosphamic acid.

Amicability (n.) The quality of being amicable; friendliness; amicableness.

Amicable (a.) Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; after the manner of friends; peaceable; as, an amicable disposition, or arrangement.

Amicableness (n.) The quality of being amicable; amicability.

Amicably (adv.) In an amicable manner.

Amice (n.) A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but now about the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Church while saying Mass.

Amice (n.) A hood, or cape with a hood, made of lined with gray fur, formerly worn by the clergy; -- written also amess, amyss, and almuce.

Amid (prep.) See Amidst.

Amide (n.) A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid element or radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical.

Amidin (n.) Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, like horn. It is soluble in cold water.

Amido (a.) Containing, or derived from, amidogen.

Amidogen (n.) A compound radical, NH2, not yet obtained in a separate state, which may be regarded as ammonia from the molecule of which one of its hydrogen atoms has been removed; -- called also the amido group, and in composition represented by the form amido.

Amidships (adv.) In the middle of a ship, with regard to her length, and sometimes also her breadth.

Amidst (prep.) Alt. of Amid

Amid (prep.) In the midst or middle of; surrounded or encompassed by; among.

Amine (n.) One of a class of strongly basic substances derived from ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atom or radical.

Amioid (a.) Like or pertaining to the Amioidei.

Amioid (n.) One of the Amioidei.

Amioidei (n. pl.) An order of ganoid fishes of which Amia is the type. See Bowfin and Ganoidei.

Amir (n.) Same as Ameer.

Amiss (adv.) Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.

Amiss (a.) Wrong; faulty; out of order; improper; as, it may not be amiss to ask advice.

Amiss (n.) A fault, wrong, or mistake.

Amissibility () The quality of being amissible; possibility of being lost.

Amissible (a.) Liable to be lost.

Amission (n.) Deprivation; loss.

Amit (v. t.) To lose.

Amities (pl. ) of Amity

Amity (n.) Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies, or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty of amity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories.

Amma (n.) An abbes or spiritual mother.

Ammeter (n.) A contraction of amperometer or amperemeter.

Ammiral (n.) An obsolete form of admiral.

Ammite (n.) Oolite or roestone; -- written also hammite.

Ammodyte (n.) One of a genus of fishes; the sand eel.

Ammodyte (n.) A kind of viper in southern Europe.

Ammonia (n.) A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with a pungent smell and taste: -- often called volatile alkali, and spirits of hartshorn.

Ammoniac (a.) Alt. of Ammoniacal

Ammoniacal (a.) Of or pertaining to ammonia, or possessing its properties; as, an ammoniac salt; ammoniacal gas.

Ammoniac (n.) Alt. of Gum ammoniac

Gum ammoniac (n.) The concrete juice (gum resin) of an umbelliferous plant, the Dorema ammoniacum. It is brought chiefly from Persia in the form of yellowish tears, which occur singly, or are aggregated into masses. It has a peculiar smell, and a nauseous, sweet taste, followed by a bitter one. It is inflammable, partially soluble in water and in spirit of wine, and is used in medicine as an expectorant and resolvent, and for the formation of certain plasters.

Ammoniated (a.) Combined or impregnated with ammonia.

Ammonic (a.) Of or pertaining to ammonia.

Ammonite (n.) A fossil cephalopod shell related to the nautilus. There are many genera and species, and all are extinct, the typical forms having existed only in the Mesozoic age, when they were exceedingly numerous. They differ from the nautili in having the margins of the septa very much lobed or plaited, and the siphuncle dorsal. Also called serpent stone, snake stone, and cornu Ammonis.

Ammonitiferous (a.) Containing fossil ammonites.

Ammonitoidea (n. pl.) An extensive group of fossil cephalopods often very abundant in Mesozoic rocks. See Ammonite.

Ammonium (n.) A compound radical, NH4, having the chemical relations of a strongly basic element like the alkali metals.

Ammunition (n.) Military stores, or provisions of all kinds for attack or defense.

Ammunition (n.) Articles used in charging firearms and ordnance of all kinds; as powder, balls, shot, shells, percussion caps, rockets, etc.

Ammunition (n.) Any stock of missiles, literal or figurative.

Ammunitioned (imp. & p. p.) of Ammunition

Ammunitioning (p pr. & vb. n.) of Ammunition

Ammunition (v. t.) To provide with ammunition.

Amnesia (n.) Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease, in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place of those he wishes to employ.

Amnesic (a.) Of or pertaining to amnesia.

Amnestic (a.) Causing loss of memory.

Amnesty (v.) Forgetfulness; cessation of remembrance of wrong; oblivion.

Amnesty (v.) An act of the sovereign power granting oblivion, or a general pardon, for a past offense, as to subjects concerned in an insurrection.

Amnestied (imp. p. p.) of Amnesty

Amnestying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amnesty

Amnesty (v. t.) To grant amnesty to.

Amnicolist (n.) One who lives near a river.

Amnigenous (a.) Born or bred in, of, or near a river.

Amnion (n.) A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles.

Amnios (n.) Same as Amnion.

Amniota (n. pl.) That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic life the envelope called the amnion. It comprises the reptiles, the birds, and the mammals.

Amniotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the amnion; characterized by an amnion; as, the amniotic fluid; the amniotic sac.

Amoebae (pl. ) of Amoeba

Amoebas (pl. ) of Amoeba

Amoeba (n.) A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing many changes of form at will. See Rhizopoda.

Amoebaeum (n.) A poem in which persons are represented at speaking alternately; as the third and seventh eclogues of Virgil.

Amoebea (n. pl.) That division of the Rhizopoda which includes the amoeba and similar forms.

Amoebean (a.) Alternately answering.

Amoebian (n.) One of the Amoebea.

Amoebiform (a.) Alt. of Amoeboid

Amoeboid (a.) Resembling an amoeba; amoeba-shaped; changing in shape like an amoeba.

Amoebous (a.) Like an amoeba in structure.

Amolition (n.) Removal; a putting away.

Amomum (n.) A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bear cardamoms, and grains of paradise.

Amoneste (v. t.) To admonish.

Among (prep.) Alt. of Amongst

Amongst (prep.) Mixed or mingled; surrounded by.

Amongst (prep.) Conjoined, or associated with, or making part of the number of; in the number or class of.

Amongst (prep.) Expressing a relation of dispersion, distribution, etc.; also, a relation of reciprocal action.

Amontillado (n.) A dry kind of cherry, of a light color.

Amoret (n.) An amorous girl or woman; a wanton.

Amoret (n.) A love knot, love token, or love song. (pl.) Love glances or love tricks.

Amoret (n.) A petty love affair or amour.

Amorette (n.) An amoret.

Amorist (n.) A lover; a gallant.

A-mornings (adv.) In the morning; every morning.

Amorosa (n.) A wanton woman; a courtesan.

Amorosity (n.) The quality of being amorous; lovingness.

Amoroso (n.) A lover; a man enamored.

Amoroso (adv.) In a soft, tender, amatory style.

Amorous (a.) Inclined to love; having a propensity to love, or to sexual enjoyment; loving; fond; affectionate; as, an amorous disposition.

Amorous (a.) Affected with love; in love; enamored; -- usually with of; formerly with on.

Amorous (a.) Of or relating to, or produced by, love.

Amorously (adv.) In an amorous manner; fondly.

Amorousness (n.) The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love; lovingness.

Amorphas (pl. ) of Amorpha

Amorpha (n.) A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purple flowers; false or bastard indigo.

Amorphism (n.) A state of being amorphous; esp. a state of being without crystallization even in the minutest particles, as in glass, opal, etc.

Amorphous (a.) Having no determinate form; of irregular; shapeless.

Amorphous (a.) Without crystallization in the ultimate texture of a solid substance; uncrystallized.

Amorphous (a.) Of no particular kind or character; anomalous.

Amorphozoa (n. pl.) Animals without a mouth or regular internal organs, as the sponges.

Amorphozoic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amorphozoa.

Amorphy (n.) Shapelessness.

Amort (a.) As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed.

Amortise (n.) Alt. of Amortisement

Amortisation (n.) Alt. of Amortisement

Amortisable (n.) Alt. of Amortisement

Amortisement (n.) Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc.

Amortizable (a.) Capable of being cleared off, as a debt.

Amortization (n.) The act or right of alienating lands to a corporation, which was considered formerly as transferring them to dead hands, or in mortmain.

Amortization (n.) The extinction of a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund; also, the money thus paid.

Amortize (v. t.) To make as if dead; to destroy.

Amortize (v. t.) To alienate in mortmain, that is, to convey to a corporation. See Mortmain.

Amortize (v. t.) To clear off or extinguish, as a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund.

Amortizement (n.) Same as Amortization.

Amorwe (adv.) In the morning.

Amorwe (adv.) On the following morning.

Amotion (n.) Removal; ousting; especially, the removal of a corporate officer from his office.

Amotion (n.) Deprivation of possession.

Amotus (a.) Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip does not touch the ground.

Amounted (imp. & p. p.) of Amount

Amounting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amount

Amount (n.) To go up; to ascend.

Amount (n.) To rise or reach by an accumulation of particular sums or quantities; to come (to) in the aggregate or whole; -- with to or unto.

Amount (n.) To rise, reach, or extend in effect, substance, or influence; to be equivalent; to come practically (to); as, the testimony amounts to very little.

Amount (v. t.) To signify; to amount to.

Amount (n.) The sum total of two or more sums or quantities; the aggregate; the whole quantity; a totality; as, the amount of 7 and 9 is 16; the amount of a bill; the amount of this year's revenue.

Amount (n.) The effect, substance, value, significance, or result; the sum; as, the amount of the testimony is this.

Amour (n.) Love; affection.

Amour (n.) Love making; a love affair; usually, an unlawful connection in love; a love intrigue; an illicit love affair.

Amour propre () Self-love; self-esteem.

Amovability (n.) Liability to be removed or dismissed from office.

Amovable (a.) Removable.

Amove (v. t.) To remove, as a person or thing, from a position.

Amove (v. t.) To dismiss from an office or station.

Amove (v. t. & i.) To move or be moved; to excite.

Ampelite (n.) An earth abounding in pyrites, used by the ancients to kill insects, etc., on vines; -- applied by Brongniart to a carbonaceous alum schist.

Ampere (n.) Alt. of Ampere

Ampere (n.) The unit of electric current; -- defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by U. S. Statute as, one tenth of the unit of current of the C. G. S. system of electro-magnetic units, or the practical equivalent of the unvarying current which, when passed through a standard solution of nitrate of silver in water, deposits silver at the rate of 0.001118 grams per second. Called also the international ampere.

Amperemeter (n.) Alt. of Amperometer

Amperometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the strength of an electrical current in amperes.

Ampersand (n.) A word used to describe the character /, /, or &.

Amphi- () A prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying both, of both kinds, on both sides, about, around.

Amphiarthrodial (a.) Characterized by amphiarthrosis.

Amphiarthrosis (n.) A form of articulation in which the bones are connected by intervening substance admitting slight motion; symphysis.

Amphiaster (n.) The achromatic figure, formed in mitotic cell-division, consisting of two asters connected by a spindle-shaped bundle of rodlike fibers diverging from each aster, and called the spindle.

Amphibia (n. pl.) One of the classes of vertebrates.

Amphibial (a. & n.) Amphibian.

Amphibian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amphibia; as, amphibian reptiles.

Amphibian (n.) One of the Amphibia.

Amphibiological (a.) Pertaining to amphibiology.

Amphibiology (n.) A treatise on amphibious animals; the department of natural history which treats of the Amphibia.

Amphibiotica (n. pl.) A division of insects having aquatic larvae.

Amphibious (a.) Having the ability to live both on land and in water, as frogs, crocodiles, beavers, and some plants.

Amphibious (a.) Pertaining to, adapted for, or connected with, both land and water.

Amphibious (a.) Of a mixed nature; partaking of two natures.

Amphibiously (adv.) Like an amphibious being.

Amphibia (pl. ) of Amphibium

Amphibiums (pl. ) of Amphibium

Amphibium (n.) An amphibian.

Amphiblastic (a.) Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with complete segmentation.

Amphibole (n.) A common mineral embracing many varieties varying in color and in composition. It occurs in monoclinic crystals; also massive, generally with fibrous or columnar structure. The color varies from white to gray, green, brown, and black. It is a silicate of magnesium and calcium, with usually aluminium and iron. Some common varieties are tremolite, actinolite, asbestus, edenite, hornblende (the last name being also used as a general term for the whole species). Amphibole is a constituent of many crystalline rocks, as syenite, diorite, most varieties of trachyte, etc. See Hornblende.

Amphibolic (a.) Of or pertaining to amphiboly; ambiguous; equivocal.

Amphibolic (a.) Of or resembling the mineral amphibole.

Amphibological (a.) Of doubtful meaning; ambiguous.

Amphibologies (pl. ) of Amphibology

Amphibology (n.) A phrase, discourse, or proposition, susceptible of two interpretations; and hence, of uncertain meaning. It differs from equivocation, which arises from the twofold sense of a single term.

Amphibolous (a.) Ambiguous; doubtful.

Amphibolous (a.) Capable of two meanings.

Amphibolies (pl. ) of Amphiboly

Amphiboly (n.) Ambiguous discourse; amphibology.

Amphibrach (n.) A foot of three syllables, the middle one long, the first and last short (~ -- ~); as, h/b/r/. In modern prosody the accented syllable takes the place of the long and the unaccented of the short; as, pro-phet#ic.

Amphicarpic (a.) Alt. of Amphicarpous

Amphicarpous (a.) Producing fruit of two kinds, either as to form or time of ripening.

Amphichroic (a.) Exhibiting or producing two colors, as substances which in the color test may change red litmus to blue and blue litmus to red.

Amphicoelian (a.) Alt. of Amphicoelous

Amphicoelous (a.) Having both ends concave; biconcave; -- said of vertebrae.

Amphicome (n.) A kind of figured stone, rugged and beset with eminences, anciently used in divination.

Amphictyonic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amphictyons or their League or Council; as, an Amphictyonic town or state; the Amphictyonic body.

Amphictyons (n. pl.) Deputies from the confederated states of ancient Greece to a congress or council. They considered both political and religious matters.

Amphictyonies (pl. ) of Amphictyony

Amphictyony (n.) A league of states of ancient Greece; esp. the celebrated confederation known as the Amphictyonic Council. Its object was to maintain the common interests of Greece.

Amphid (n.) A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and a base, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, or tellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound.

Amphidisc (n.) A peculiar small siliceous spicule having a denticulated wheel at each end; -- found in freshwater sponges.

Amphidromical (a.) Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- so called because the friends of the parents carried the child around the hearth and then named it.

Amphigamous (a.) Having a structure entirely cellular, and no distinct sexual organs; -- a term applied by De Candolle to the lowest order of plants.

Amphigean (a.) Extending over all the zones, from the tropics to the polar zones inclusive.

Amphigen (n.) An element that in combination produces amphid salt; -- applied by Berzelius to oxygen, sulphur, selenium, and tellurium.

Amphigene (n.) Leucite.

Amphigenesis (n.) Sexual generation; amphigony.

Amphigenous (a.) Increasing in size by growth on all sides, as the lichens.

Amphigonic (a.) Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation.

Amphigonous (a.) Relating to both parents.

Amphigony (n.) Sexual propagation.

Amphigoric (a.) Nonsensical; absurd; pertaining to an amphigory.

Amphigory (n.) A nonsense verse; a rigmarole, with apparent meaning, which on further attention proves to be meaningless.

Amphilogism (n.) Alt. of Amphilogy

Amphilogy (n.) Ambiguity of speech; equivocation.

Amphimacer (n.) A foot of three syllables, the middle one short and the others long, as in cast/tas.

Amphineura (n. pl.) A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry of the organs and the arrangement of the nerves.

Amphioxus (n.) A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or three inches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet. Its body is pointed at both ends. It is the lowest and most generalized of the vertebrates, having neither brain, skull, vertebrae, nor red blood. It forms the type of the group Acrania, Leptocardia, etc.

Amphipneust (n.) One of a tribe of Amphibia, which have both lungs and gills at the same time, as the proteus and siren.

Amphipod (n.) One of the Amphipoda.

Amphipod (a.) Alt. of Amphipodan

Amphipodan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.

Amphipoda (n. pl.) A numerous group of fourteen -- footed Crustacea, inhabiting both fresh and salt water. The body is usually compressed laterally, and the anterior pairs or legs are directed downward and forward, but the posterior legs are usually turned upward and backward. The beach flea is an example. See Tetradecapoda and Arthrostraca.

Amphipodous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.

Amphiprostyle (a.) Doubly prostyle; having columns at each end, but not at the sides.

Amphiprostyle (n.) An amphiprostyle temple or edifice.

Amphirhina (n. pl.) A name applied to the elasmobranch fishes, because the nasal sac is double.

Amphisbaena (n.) A fabled serpent with a head at each end, moving either way.

Amphisbaena (n.) A genus of harmless lizards, serpentlike in form, without legs, and with both ends so much alike that they appear to have a head at each, and ability to move either way. See Illustration in Appendix.

Amphisbaenoid (a.) Like or pertaining to the lizards of the genus Amphisbaena.

Amphiscii (n. pl.) Alt. of Amphiscians

Amphiscians (n. pl.) The inhabitants of the tropic, whose shadows in one part of the year are cast to the north, and in the other to the south, according as the sun is south or north of their zenith.

Amphistomous (a.) Having a sucker at each extremity, as certain entozoa, by means of which they adhere.

Amphistylic (a.) Having the mandibular arch articulated with the hyoid arch and the cranium, as in the cestraciont sharks; -- said of a skull.

Amphitheater (n.) Alt. of Amphitheatre

Amphitheatre (n.) An oval or circular building with rising tiers of seats about an open space called the arena.

Amphitheatre (n.) Anything resembling an amphitheater in form; as, a level surrounded by rising slopes or hills, or a rising gallery in a theater.

Amphitheatral (a.) Amphitheatrical; resembling an amphitheater.

Amphitheatric (a.) Alt. of Amphitheatrical

Amphitheatrical (a.) Of, pertaining to, exhibited in, or resembling, an amphitheater.

Amphitheatrically (adv.) In the form or manner of an amphitheater.

Amphitrocha (n.) A kind of annelid larva having both a dorsal and a ventral circle of special cilia.

Amphitropal (a.) Alt. of Amphitropous

Amphitropous (a.) Having the ovule inverted, but with the attachment near the middle of one side; half anatropous.

Amphiuma (n.) A genus of amphibians, inhabiting the Southern United States, having a serpentlike form, but with four minute limbs and two persistent gill openings; the Congo snake.

Amphopeptone (n.) A product of gastric digestion, a mixture of hemipeptone and antipeptone.

Amophorae (pl. ) of Amphora

Amphora (n.) Among the ancients, a two-handled vessel, tapering at the bottom, used for holding wine, oil, etc.

Amphoral (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an amphora.

Amphoric (a.) Produced by, or indicating, a cavity in the lungs, not filled, and giving a sound like that produced by blowing into an empty decanter; as, amphoric respiration or resonance.

Amphoteric (a.) Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline; neutral.

Ample (a.) Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious; roomy; widely extended.

Ample (a.) Fully sufficient; abundant; liberal; copious; as, an ample fortune; ample justice.

Ample (a.) Not contracted of brief; not concise; extended; diffusive; as, an ample narrative.

Amplectant (a.) Clasping a support; as, amplectant tendrils.

Ampleness (n.) The state or quality of being ample; largeness; fullness; completeness.

Amplexation (n.) An embrace.

Amplexicaul (a.) Clasping or embracing a stem, as the base of some leaves.

Ampliate (v. t.) To enlarge.

Ampliate (a.) Having the outer edge prominent; said of the wings of insects.

Ampliation (n.) Enlargement; amplification.

Ampliation (n.) A postponement of the decision of a cause, for further consideration or re-argument.

Ampliative (a.) Enlarging a conception by adding to that which is already known or received.

Amplificate (v. t.) To amplify.

Amplification (n.) The act of amplifying or enlarging in dimensions; enlargement; extension.

Amplification (n.) The enlarging of a simple statement by particularity of description, the use of epithets, etc., for rhetorical effect; diffuse narrative or description, or a dilating upon all the particulars of a subject.

Amplification (n.) The matter by which a statement is amplified; as, the subject was presented without amplifications.

Amplificative (a.) Amplificatory.

Amplificatory (a.) Serving to amplify or enlarge; amplificative.

Amplifier (n.) One who or that which amplifies.

Amplified (imp. & p. p.) of Amplify

Amplifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amplify

Amplify (v. t.) To render larger, more extended, or more intense, and the like; -- used especially of telescopes, microscopes, etc.

Amplify (v. t.) To enlarge by addition or discussion; to treat copiously by adding particulars, illustrations, etc.; to expand; to make much of.

Amplify (v. i.) To become larger.

Amplify (v. i.) To speak largely or copiously; to be diffuse in argument or description; to dilate; to expatiate; -- often with on or upon.

Amplitude (n.) State of being ample; extent of surface or space; largeness of dimensions; size.

Amplitude (n.) Largeness, in a figurative sense; breadth; abundance; fullness.

Amplitude (n.) Of extent of capacity or intellectual powers.

Amplitude (n.) Of extent of means or resources.

Amplitude (n.) The arc of the horizon between the true east or west point and the center of the sun, or a star, at its rising or setting. At the rising, the amplitude is eastern or ortive: at the setting, it is western, occiduous, or occasive. It is also northern or southern, when north or south of the equator.

Amplitude (n.) The arc of the horizon between the true east or west point and the foot of the vertical circle passing through any star or object.

Amplitude (n.) The horizontal line which measures the distance to which a projectile is thrown; the range.

Amplitude (n.) The extent of a movement measured from the starting point or position of equilibrium; -- applied especially to vibratory movements.

Amplitude (n.) An angle upon which the value of some function depends; -- a term used more especially in connection with elliptic functions.

Amply (adv.) In an ample manner.

Ampul (n.) Same as Ampulla, 2.

Ampullae (pl. ) of Ampulla

Ampulla (n.) A narrow-necked vessel having two handles and bellying out like a jug.

Ampulla (n.) A cruet for the wine and water at Mass.

Ampulla (n.) The vase in which the holy oil for chrism, unction, or coronation is kept.

Ampulla (n.) Any membranous bag shaped like a leathern bottle, as the dilated end of a vessel or duct; especially the dilations of the semicircular canals of the ear.

Ampullaceous (a.) Like a bottle or inflated bladder; bottle-shaped; swelling.

Ampullar (a.) Alt. of Ampullary

Ampullary (a.) Resembling an ampulla.

Ampullate (a.) Alt. of Ampullated

Ampullated (a.) Having an ampulla; flask-shaped; bellied.

Ampulliform (a.) Flask-shaped; dilated.

Amputated (imp. & p. p.) of Amputate

Amputating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amputate

Amputate (v. t.) To prune or lop off, as branches or tendrils.

Amputate (v. t.) To cut off (a limb or projecting part of the body)

Amputation (n.) The act of amputating; esp. the operation of cutting off a limb or projecting part of the body.

Amputator (n.) One who amputates.

Ampyx (n.) A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the front hair.

Amrita (n.) Immortality; also, the nectar conferring immortality.

Amrita (a.) Ambrosial; immortal.

Amsel (n.) Alt. of Amzel

Amzel (n.) The European ring ousel (Turdus torquatus).

Amuck (a. & adv.) In a frenzied and reckless manner.

Amulet (n.) An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic, etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms or characters. [Also used figuratively.]

Amuletic (a.) Of or pertaining to an amulet; operating as a charm.

Amurcous (a.) Full off dregs; foul.

Amusable (a.) Capable of being amused.

Amused (imp. & p. p.) of Amuse

Amusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amuse

Amuse (v.) To occupy or engage the attention of; to lose in deep thought; to absorb; also, to distract; to bewilder.

Amuse (v.) To entertain or occupy in a pleasant manner; to stir with pleasing or mirthful emotions; to divert.

Amuse (v.) To keep in expectation; to beguile; to delude.

Amuse (v. i.) To muse; to mediate.

Amused (a.) Diverted.

Amused (a.) Expressing amusement; as, an amused look.

Amusement (n.) Deep thought; muse.

Amusement (n.) The state of being amused; pleasurable excitement; that which amuses; diversion.

Amuser (n.) One who amuses.

Amusette (n.) A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel.

Amusing (a.) Giving amusement; diverting; as, an amusing story.

Amusive (a.) Having power to amuse or entertain the mind; fitted to excite mirth.

Amy (n.) A friend.

Amyelous (a.) Wanting the spinal cord.

Amygdalaceous (a.) Akin to, or derived from, the almond.

Amygdalate (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or made of, almonds.

Amygdalate (n.) An emulsion made of almonds; milk of almonds.

Amygdalate (n.) A salt amygdalic acid.

Amygdalic (a.) Of or pertaining to almonds; derived from amygdalin; as, amygdalic acid.

Amygdaliferous (a.) Almond-bearing.

Amygdalin (n.) A glucoside extracted from bitter almonds as a white, crystalline substance.

Amygdaline (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, almonds.

Amygdaloid (n.) A variety of trap or basaltic rock, containing small cavities, occupied, wholly or in part, by nodules or geodes of different minerals, esp. agates, quartz, calcite, and the zeolites. When the imbedded minerals are detached or removed by decomposition, it is porous, like lava.

Amygdaloid (a.) Alt. of Amygdaloidal

Amygdaloidal (a.) Almond-shaped.

Amygdaloidal (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, the rock amygdaloid.

Amyl (n.) A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found in amyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc.

Amylaceous (a.) Pertaining to starch; of the nature of starch; starchy.

Amylate (n.) A compound of the radical amyl with oxygen and a positive atom or radical.

Amylene (n.) One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons, C5H10, of the ethylene series. The colorless, volatile, mobile liquid commonly called amylene is a mixture of different members of the group.

Amylic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether.

Amylobacter (n.) A microorganism (Bacillus amylobacter) which develops in vegetable tissue during putrefaction.

Amyloid (a.) Alt. of Amyloidal

Amyloidal (a.) Resembling or containing amyl; starchlike.

Amyloid (n.) A non-nitrogenous starchy food; a starchlike substance.

Amyloid (n.) The substance deposited in the organs in amyloid degeneration.

Amylolytic (a.) Effecting the conversion of starch into soluble dextrin and sugar; as, an amylolytic ferment.

Amylose (n.) One of the starch group (C6H10O5)n of the carbohydrates; as, starch, arabin, dextrin, cellulose, etc.

Amyous (a.) Wanting in muscle; without flesh.

Amyss (n.) Same as Amice, a hood or cape.

An () This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called the indefinite article. It is used before nouns of the singular number only, and signifies one, or any, but somewhat less emphatically. In such expressions as twice an hour, once an age, a shilling an ounce (see 2d A, 2), it has a distributive force, and is equivalent to each, every.

An (conj.) If; -- a word used by old English authors.

Ana- () A prefix in words from the Greek, denoting up, upward, throughout, backward, back, again, anew.

Ana (adv.) Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or, contracted, aa), / ij., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces.

-ana () A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus, Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana of Johnson, etc.

Anabaptism (n.) The doctrine of the Anabaptists.

Anabaptist (n.) A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding that rebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.

Anabaptistic (a.) Alt. of Anabaptistical

Anabaptistical (a.) Relating or attributed to the Anabaptists, or their doctrines.

Anabaptistry (n.) The doctrine, system, or practice, of Anabaptists.

Anabaptize (v. t.) To rebaptize; to rechristen; also, to rename.

Anabas (n.) A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living long out of water, and of making their way on land for considerable distances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes.

Anabasis (n.) A journey or expedition up from the coast, like that of the younger Cyrus into Central Asia, described by Xenophon in his work called The Anabasis.

Anabasis (n.) The first period, or increase, of a disease; augmentation.

Anabatic (a.) Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever.

Anabolic (a.) Pertaining to anabolism; an anabolic changes, or processes, more or less constructive in their nature.

Anabolism (n.) The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished from katabolism.

Anacamptic (a.) Reflecting of reflected; as, an anacamptic sound (and echo).

Anacamptically (adv.) By reflection; as, echoes are sound produced anacamptically.

Anacamptics (n.) The science of reflected light, now called catoptrics.

Anacamptics (n.) The science of reflected sounds.

Anacanthini (n. pl.) Alt. of Anacanths

Anacanths (n. pl.) A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, as the cod.

Anacanthous (a.) Spineless, as certain fishes.

Anacardiaceous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a family, or order, of plants of which the cashew tree is the type, and the species of sumac are well known examples.

Anacardic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the cashew nut; as, anacardic acid.

Anacardium (n.) A genus of plants including the cashew tree. See Cashew.

Anacathartic (a.) Producing vomiting or expectoration.

Anacathartic (n.) An anacathartic medicine; an expectorant or an emetic.

Anacharis (n.) A fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceae), native to America. Transferred to England it became an obstruction to navigation. Called also waterweed and water thyme.

Anachoret (a.) Alt. of Anachoretical

Anachoretical (a.) See Anchoret, Anchoretic.

Anachorism (n.) An error in regard to the place of an event or a thing; a referring something to a wrong place.

Anachronic (a.) Alt. of Anachronical

Anachronical (a.) Characterized by, or involving, anachronism; anachronistic.

Anachronism (n.) A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error in chronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other, esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification of chronological relation.

Anachronistic (a.) Erroneous in date; containing an anachronism.

Anachronize (v. t.) To refer to, or put into, a wrong time.

Anachronous (a.) Containing an anachronism; anachronistic.

Anaclastic (a.) Produced by the refraction of light, as seen through water; as, anaclastic curves.

Anaclastic (a.) Springing back, as the bottom of an anaclastic glass.

Anaclastics (n.) That part of optics which treats of the refraction of light; -- commonly called dioptrics.

Anacoenosis (n.) A figure by which a speaker appeals to his hearers or opponents for their opinion on the point in debate.

Anacoluthic (a.) Lacking grammatical sequence.

Anacoluthon (n.) A want of grammatical sequence or coherence in a sentence; an instance of a change of construction in a sentence so that the latter part does not syntactically correspond with the first part.

Anaconda (n.) A large South American snake of the Boa family (Eunectes murinus), which lives near rivers, and preys on birds and small mammals. The name is also applied to a similar large serpent (Python tigris) of Ceylon.

Anacreontic (a.) Pertaining to, after the manner of, or in the meter of, the Greek poet Anacreon; amatory and convivial.

Anacreontic (n.) A poem after the manner of Anacreon; a sprightly little poem in praise of love and wine.

Anacrotic (a.) Pertaining to anachronism.

Anacrotism (n.) A secondary notch in the pulse curve, obtained in a sphygmographic tracing.

Anacrusis (n.) A prefix of one or two unaccented syllables to a verse properly beginning with an accented syllable.

Anadem (n.) A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath.

Anadiplosis (n.) A repetition of the last word or any prominent word in a sentence or clause, at the beginning of the next, with an adjunct idea; as, He retained his virtues amidst all his misfortunes -- misfortunes which no prudence could foresee or prevent.

Anadrom (n.) A fish that leaves the sea and ascends rivers.

Anadromous (a.) Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, for breeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.

Anadromous (a.) Tending upwards; -- said of terns in which the lowest secondary segments are on the upper side of the branch of the central stem.

Anaemia (a.) A morbid condition in which the blood is deficient in quality or in quantity.

Anaemic (a.) Of or pertaining to anaemia.

Anaerobic (a.) Relating to, or like, anaerobies; anaerobiotic.

Anaerobies (n. pl.) Microorganisms which do not require oxygen, but are killed by it.

Anaerobiotic (a.) Related to, or of the nature of, anaerobies.

Anaesthesia (n.) Entire or partial loss or absence of feeling or sensation; a state of general or local insensibility produced by disease or by the inhalation or application of an anaesthetic.

Anaesthesis (n.) See Anaesthesia.

Anaesthetic (a.) Capable of rendering insensible; as, anaesthetic agents.

Anaesthetic (a.) Characterized by, or connected with, insensibility; as, an anaesthetic effect or operation.

Anaesthetic (n.) That which produces insensibility to pain, as chloroform, ether, etc.

Anaesthetization (n.) The process of anaesthetizing; also, the condition of the nervous system induced by anaesthetics.

Anaesthetize (v. t.) To render insensible by an anaesthetic.

Anaglyph (n.) Any sculptured, chased, or embossed ornament worked in low relief, as a cameo.

Anaglyphic (a.) Alt. of Anaglyphical

Anaglyphical (a.) Pertaining to the art of chasing or embossing in relief; anaglyptic; -- opposed to diaglyptic or sunk work.

Anaglyphic (n.) Work chased or embossed relief.

Anaglyptic (a.) Relating to the art of carving, enchasing, or embossing in low relief.

Anaglyptics (n.) The art of carving in low relief, embossing, etc.

Anaglyptograph (n.) An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossed object, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed.

Anaglyptographic (a.) Of or pertaining to anaglyptography; as, anaglyptographic engraving.

Anaglyptography (n.) The art of copying works in relief, or of engraving as to give the subject an embossed or raised appearance; -- used in representing coins, bas-reliefs, etc.

Anagnorisis (n.) The unfolding or denouement.

Anagoge (n.) An elevation of mind to things celestial.

Anagoge (n.) The spiritual meaning or application; esp. the application of the types and allegories of the Old Testament to subjects of the New.

Anagogic (a.) Alt. of Anagogical

Anagogical (a.) Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest of the Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of the saints in heaven; an anagogical explication.

Anagogics (n. pl.) Mystical interpretations or studies, esp. of the Scriptures.

Anagogy (n.) Same as Anagoge.

Anagram (n.) Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in its usual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another by the transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus; William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) may be turned into I moyl in law.

Anagram (v. t.) To anagrammatize.

Anagrammatic (a.) Alt. of Anagrammatical

Anagrammatical (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or making, an anagram.

Anagrammatism (n.) The act or practice of making anagrams.

Anagrammatist (n.) A maker anagrams.

Anagrammatize (v. t.) To transpose, as the letters of a word, so as to form an anagram.

Anagraph (n.) An inventory; a record.

Anakim (n. pl.) Alt. of Anaks

Anaks (n. pl.) A race of giants living in Palestine.

Anal (a.) Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or glands.

Analcime (n.) A white or flesh-red mineral, of the zeolite family, occurring in isometric crystals. By friction, it acquires a weak electricity; hence its name.

Analcite (n.) Analcime.

Analectic (a.) Relating to analects; made up of selections; as, an analectic magazine.

Analects (n. pl.) Alt. of Analecta

Analecta (n. pl.) A collection of literary fragments.

Analemma (n.) An orthographic projection of the sphere on the plane of the meridian, the eye being supposed at an infinite distance, and in the east or west point of the horizon.

Analemma (n.) An instrument of wood or brass, on which this projection of the sphere is made, having a movable horizon or cursor; -- formerly much used in solving some common astronomical problems.

Analemma (n.) A scale of the sun's declination for each day of the year, drawn across the torrid zone on an artificial terrestrial globe.

Analepsis () Alt. of Analepsy

Analepsy () Recovery of strength after sickness.

Analepsy () A species of epileptic attack, originating from gastric disorder.

Analeptic (a.) Restorative; giving strength after disease.

Analeptic (n.) A restorative.

Analgesia (n.) Absence of sensibility to pain.

Anallagmatic (a.) Not changed in form by inversion.

Anallantoic (a.) Without, or not developing, an allantois.

Anallantoidea (n. pl.) The division of Vertebrata in which no allantois is developed. It includes amphibians, fishes, and lower forms.

Analogal (a.) Analogous.

Analogic (a.) Of or belonging to analogy.

Analogical (a.) Founded on, or of the nature of, analogy; expressing or implying analogy.

Analogical (a.) Having analogy; analogous.

Analogically (adv.) In an analogical sense; in accordance with analogy; by way of similitude.

Analogicalness (n.) Quality of being analogical.

Analogism (n.) an argument from the cause to the effect; an a priori argument.

Analogism (n.) Investigation of things by the analogy they bear to each other.

Analogist (n.) One who reasons from analogy, or represent, by analogy.

Analogize (v. i.) To employ, or reason by, analogy.

Analogon (n.) Analogue.

Analogous (a.) Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing some resemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to.

Analogue (n.) That which is analogous to, or corresponds with, some other thing.

Analogue (n.) A word in one language corresponding with one in another; an analogous term; as, the Latin pater is the analogue of the English father.

Analogue (n.) An organ which is equivalent in its functions to a different organ in another species or group, or even in the same group; as, the gill of a fish is the analogue of a lung in a quadruped, although the two are not of like structural relations.

Analogue (n.) A species in one genus or group having its characters parallel, one by one, with those of another group.

Analogue (n.) A species or genus in one country closely related to a species of the same genus, or a genus of the same group, in another: such species are often called representative species, and such genera, representative genera.

Analogies (pl. ) of Analogy

Analogy (n.) A resemblance of relations; an agreement or likeness between things in some circumstances or effects, when the things are otherwise entirely different. Thus, learning enlightens the mind, because it is to the mind what light is to the eye, enabling it to discover things before hidden.

Analogy (n.) A relation or correspondence in function, between organs or parts which are decidedly different.

Analogy (n.) Proportion; equality of ratios.

Analogy (n.) Conformity of words to the genius, structure, or general rules of a language; similarity of origin, inflection, or principle of pronunciation, and the like, as opposed to anomaly.

Analyse (n.) Alt. of Analyser

Analyser (n.) Same as Analyze, Analyzer, etc.

Analyses (pl. ) of Analysis

Analysis (n.) A resolution of anything, whether an object of the senses or of the intellect, into its constituent or original elements; an examination of the component parts of a subject, each separately, as the words which compose a sentence, the tones of a tune, or the simple propositions which enter into an argument. It is opposed to synthesis.

Analysis (n.) The separation of a compound substance, by chemical processes, into its constituents, with a view to ascertain either (a) what elements it contains, or (b) how much of each element is present. The former is called qualitative, and the latter quantitative analysis.

Analysis (n.) The tracing of things to their source, and the resolving of knowledge into its original principles.

Analysis (n.) The resolving of problems by reducing the conditions that are in them to equations.

Analysis (n.) A syllabus, or table of the principal heads of a discourse, disposed in their natural order.

Analysis (n.) A brief, methodical illustration of the principles of a science. In this sense it is nearly synonymous with synopsis.

Analysis (n.) The process of ascertaining the name of a species, or its place in a system of classification, by means of an analytical table or key.

Analyst (n.) One who analyzes; formerly, one skilled in algebraical geometry; now commonly, one skilled in chemical analysis.

Analytic (a.) Alt. of Analytical

Analytical (a.) Of or pertaining to analysis; resolving into elements or constituent parts; as, an analytical experiment; analytic reasoning; -- opposed to synthetic.

Analytically (adv.) In an analytical manner.

Analytics (n.) The science of analysis.

Analyzable (a.) That may be analyzed.

Analyzation (n.) The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts; analysis.

Analyzed (imp. & p. p.) of Analyze

Analyzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Analyze

Analyze (v. t.) To subject to analysis; to resolve (anything complex) into its elements; to separate into the constituent parts, for the purpose of an examination of each separately; to examine in such a manner as to ascertain the elements or nature of the thing examined; as, to analyze a fossil substance; to analyze a sentence or a word; to analyze an action to ascertain its morality.

Analyzer (n.) One who, or that which, analyzes.

Analyzer (n.) The part of a polariscope which receives the light after polarization, and exhibits its properties.

Anamese (a.) Of or pertaining to Anam, to southeastern Asia.

Anamese (n.) A native of Anam.

Anamnesis (n.) A recalling to mind; recollection.

Anamnestic (a.) Aiding the memory; as, anamnestic remedies.

Anamniotic (a.) Without, or not developing, an amnion.

Anamorphism (n.) A distorted image.

Anamorphism (n.) A gradual progression from one type to another, generally ascending.

Anamorphosis (n.) A distorted or monstrous projection or representation of an image on a plane or curved surface, which, when viewed from a certain point, or as reflected from a curved mirror or through a polyhedron, appears regular and in proportion; a deformation of an image.

Anamorphosis (n.) Same as Anamorphism, 2.

Anamorphosis (n.) A morbid or monstrous development, or change of form, or degeneration.

Anamorphosy (n.) Same as Anamorphosis.

Anan (interj.) An expression equivalent to What did you say? Sir? Eh?

Ananas (n.) The pineapple (Ananassa sativa).

Anandrous (a.) Destitute of stamens, as certain female flowers.

Anangular (a.) Containing no angle.

Anantherous (a.) Destitute of anthers.

Ananthous (a.) Destitute of flowers; flowerless.

Anapaest () Alt. of Anapaestic

Anapaestic () Same as Anapest, Anapestic.

Anapest (n.) A metrical foot consisting of three syllables, the first two short, or unaccented, the last long, or accented (/ / -); the reverse of the dactyl. In Latin d/-/-tas, and in English in-ter-vene#, are examples of anapests.

Anapest (n.) A verse composed of such feet.

Anapestic (a.) Pertaining to an anapest; consisting of an anapests; as, an anapestic meter, foot, verse.

Anapestic (n.) Anapestic measure or verse.

Anapestical (a.) Anapestic.

Anaphora (n.) A repetition of a word or of words at the beginning of two or more successive clauses.

Anaphrodisia (n.) Absence of sexual appetite.

Anaphrodisiac (a. & n.) Same as Antaphrodisiac.

Anaphroditic (a.) Produced without concourse of sexes.

Anaplastic (a.) Of or pertaining to anaplasty.

Anaplasty (n.) The art of operation of restoring lost parts or the normal shape by the use of healthy tissue.

Anaplerotic (a.) Filling up; promoting granulation of wounds or ulcers.

Anaplerotic (n.) A remedy which promotes such granulation.

Anapnograph (n.) A form of spirometer.

Anapnoic (a.) Relating to respiration.

Anapodeictic (a.) Not apodeictic; undemonstrable.

Anapophysis (n.) An accessory process in many lumbar vertebrae.

Anaptotic (a.) Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay; as, anaptotic languages.

Anaptichi (pl. ) of Anaptychus

Anaptychus (n.) One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, as the ammonites.

Anarch (n.) The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt.

Anarchal (a.) Lawless; anarchical.

Anarchic (a.) Alt. of Anarchical

Anarchical (a.) Pertaining to anarchy; without rule or government; in political confusion; tending to produce anarchy; as, anarchic despotism; anarchical opinions.

Anarchism (n.) The doctrine or practice of anarchists.

Anarchist (n.) An anarch; one who advocates anarchy of aims at the overthrow of civil government.

Anarchize (v. t.) To reduce to anarchy.

Anarchy (n.) Absence of government; the state of society where there is no law or supreme power; a state of lawlessness; political confusion.

Anarchy (n.) Hence, confusion or disorder, in general.

Anarthropoda (n. pl.) One of the divisions of Articulata in which there are no jointed legs, as the annelids; -- opposed to Arthropoda.

Anarthropodous (a.) Having no jointed legs; pertaining to Anarthropoda.

Anarthrous (a.) Used without the article; as, an anarthrous substantive.

Anarthrous (a.) Without joints, or having the joints indistinct, as some insects.

Anas (n.) A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certain species of fresh-water ducks.

Anasarca (n.) Dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; an effusion of serum into the cellular substance, occasioning a soft, pale, inelastic swelling of the skin.

Anasarcous (a.) Belonging, or affected by, anasarca, or dropsy; dropsical.

Anastaltic (a. & n.) Styptic.

Anastate (n.) One of a series of substances formed, in secreting cells, by constructive or anabolic processes, in the production of protoplasm; -- opposed to katastate.

Anastatic (a.) Pertaining to a process or a style of printing from characters in relief on zinc plates.

Anastomozed (imp. p. p.) of Anastomose

Anastomosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anastomose

Anastomose (v. i.) To inosculate; to intercommunicate by anastomosis, as the arteries and veins.

Anastomoses (pl. ) of Anastomosis

Anastomosis (n.) The inosculation of vessels, or intercommunication between two or more vessels or nerves, as the cross communication between arteries or veins.

Anastomotic (a.) Of or pertaining to anastomosis.

Anastrophe (n.) An inversion of the natural order of words; as, echoed the hills, for, the hills echoed.

Anathemas (pl. ) of Anathema

Anathema (n.) A ban or curse pronounced with religious solemnity by ecclesiastical authority, and accompanied by excommunication. Hence: Denunciation of anything as accursed.

Anathema (n.) An imprecation; a curse; a malediction.

Anathema (n.) Any person or thing anathematized, or cursed by ecclesiastical authority.

Anathematic (a.) Alt. of Anathematical

Anathematical (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema.

Anathematism (n.) Anathematization.

Anathematization (n.) The act of anathematizing, or denouncing as accursed; imprecation.

Anathematized (imp. & p. p.) of Anathematize

Anathematizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anathematize

Anathematize (v. t.) To pronounce an anathema against; to curse. Hence: To condemn publicly as something accursed.

Anathematizer (n.) One who pronounces an anathema.

Anatifae (pl. ) of Anatifa

Anatifa (n.) An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having a fleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle. See Cirripedia.

Anatifer (n.) Same as Anatifa.

Anatiferous (a.) Producing ducks; -- applied to Anatifae, under the absurd notion of their turning into ducks or geese. See Barnacle.

Anatine (a.) Of or pertaining to the ducks; ducklike.

Anatocism (n.) Compound interest.

Anatomic (a.) Alt. of Anatomical

Anatomical (a.) Of or relating to anatomy or dissection; as, the anatomic art; anatomical observations.

Anatomically (adv.) In an anatomical manner; by means of dissection.

Anatomism (n.) The application of the principles of anatomy, as in art.

Anatomism (n.) The doctrine that the anatomical structure explains all the phenomena of the organism or of animal life.

Anatomist (n.) One who is skilled in the art of anatomy, or dissection.

Anatomization (n.) The act of anatomizing.

Anatomized (imp. & p. p.) of Anatomize

Anatomizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anatomize

Anatomize (v. t.) To dissect; to cut in pieces, as an animal vegetable body, for the purpose of displaying or examining the structure and use of the several parts.

Anatomize (v. t.) To discriminate minutely or carefully; to analyze.

Anatomizer (n.) A dissector.

Anatomies (pl. ) of Anatomy

Anatomy (n.) The art of dissecting, or artificially separating the different parts of any organized body, to discover their situation, structure, and economy; dissection.

Anatomy (n.) The science which treats of the structure of organic bodies; anatomical structure or organization.

Anatomy (n.) A treatise or book on anatomy.

Anatomy (n.) The act of dividing anything, corporeal or intellectual, for the purpose of examining its parts; analysis; as, the anatomy of a discourse.

Anatomy (n.) A skeleton; anything anatomized or dissected, or which has the appearance of being so.

Anatreptic (a.) Overthrowing; defeating; -- applied to Plato's refutative dialogues.

Anatron (n.) Native carbonate of soda; natron.

Anatron (n.) Glass gall or sandiver.

Anatron (n.) Saltpeter.

Anatropal (a.) Alt. of Anatropous

Anatropous (a.) Having the ovule inverted at an early period in its development, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposed to orthotropous.

Anatto (n.) Same as Annotto.

Anbury (n.) Alt. of Ambury

Ambury (n.) A soft tumor or bloody wart on horses or oxen.

Ambury (n.) A disease of the roots of turnips, etc.; -- called also fingers and toes.

-ance () A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as, assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.

Ancestor (n.) One from whom a person is descended, whether on the father's or mother's side, at any distance of time; a progenitor; a fore father.

Ancestor (n.) An earlier type; a progenitor; as, this fossil animal is regarded as the ancestor of the horse.

Ancestor (n.) One from whom an estate has descended; -- the correlative of heir.

Ancestorial (a.) Ancestral.

Ancestorially (adv.) With regard to ancestors.

Ancestral (a.) Of, pertaining to, derived from, or possessed by, an ancestor or ancestors; as, an ancestral estate.

Ancestress (n.) A female ancestor.

Ancestry (n.) Condition as to ancestors; ancestral lineage; hence, birth or honorable descent.

Ancestry (n.) A series of ancestors or progenitors; lineage, or those who compose the line of natural descent.

Anchor (n.) A iron instrument which is attached to a ship by a cable (rope or chain), and which, being cast overboard, lays hold of the earth by a fluke or hook and thus retains the ship in a particular station.

Anchor (n.) Any instrument or contrivance serving a purpose like that of a ship's anchor, as an arrangement of timber to hold a dam fast; a contrivance to hold the end of a bridge cable, or other similar part; a contrivance used by founders to hold the core of a mold in place.

Anchor (n.) Fig.: That which gives stability or security; that on which we place dependence for safety.

Anchor (n.) An emblem of hope.

Anchor (n.) A metal tie holding adjoining parts of a building together.

Anchor (n.) Carved work, somewhat resembling an anchor or arrowhead; -- a part of the ornaments of certain moldings. It is seen in the echinus, or egg-and-anchor (called also egg-and-dart, egg-and-tongue) ornament.

Anchor (n.) One of the anchor-shaped spicules of certain sponges; also, one of the calcareous spinules of certain Holothurians, as in species of Synapta.

Anchored (imp. & p. p.) of Anchor

Anchoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anchor

Anchor (v. t.) To place at anchor; to secure by an anchor; as, to anchor a ship.

Anchor (v. t.) To fix or fasten; to fix in a stable condition; as, to anchor the cables of a suspension bridge.

Anchor (v. i.) To cast anchor; to come to anchor; as, our ship (or the captain) anchored in the stream.

Anchor (v. i.) To stop; to fix or rest.

Anchor (n.) An anchoret.

Anchorable (a.) Fit for anchorage.

Anchorage (n.) The act of anchoring, or the condition of lying at anchor.

Anchorage (n.) A place suitable for anchoring or where ships anchor; a hold for an anchor.

Anchorage (n.) The set of anchors belonging to a ship.

Anchorage (n.) Something which holds like an anchor; a hold; as, the anchorages of the Brooklyn Bridge.

Anchorage (n.) Something on which one may depend for security; ground of trust.

Anchorage (n.) A toll for anchoring; anchorage duties.

Anchorage (n.) Abode of an anchoret.

Anchorate (a.) Anchor-shaped.

Anchored (a.) Held by an anchor; at anchor; held safely; as, an anchored bark; also, shaped like an anchor; forked; as, an anchored tongue.

Anchored (a.) Having the extremities turned back, like the flukes of an anchor; as, an anchored cross.

Anchoress (n.) A female anchoret.

Anchoret (n.) Alt. of Anchorite

Anchorite (n.) One who renounces the world and secludes himself, usually for religious reasons; a hermit; a recluse.

Anchoretic (a.) Alt. of Anchoretical

Anchoretical (a.) Pertaining to an anchoret or hermit; after the manner of an anchoret.

Anchoretish (a.) Hermitlike.

Anchoretism (n.) The practice or mode of life of an anchoret.

Anchor-hold (n.) The hold or grip of an anchor, or that to which it holds.

Anchor-hold (n.) Hence: Firm hold: security.

Anchorite (n.) Same as Anchoret.

Anchoritess (n.) An anchoress.

Anchorless (a.) Without an anchor or stay. Hence: Drifting; unsettled.

Anchovy (n.) A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herring family (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in the Mediterranean, and pickled for exportation. The name is also applied to several allied species.

Anchovy pear () A West Indian fruit like the mango in taste, sometimes pickled; also, the tree (Grias cauliflora) bearing this fruit.

Anchusin (n.) A resinoid coloring matter obtained from alkanet root.

Anchylosed (imp. & p. p.) of Anchylose

Anchylosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anchylose

Anchylose (v. t. & i.) To affect or be affected with anchylosis; to unite or consolidate so as to make a stiff joint; to grow together into one.

Anchylosis (n.) Alt. of Ankylosis

Ankylosis (n.) Stiffness or fixation of a joint; formation of a stiff joint.

Ankylosis (n.) The union of two or more separate bones to from a single bone; the close union of bones or other structures in various animals.

Anchylotic (a.) Of or pertaining to anchylosis.

Ancient (a.) Old; that happened or existed in former times, usually at a great distance of time; belonging to times long past; specifically applied to the times before the fall of the Roman empire; -- opposed to modern; as, ancient authors, literature, history; ancient days.

Ancient (a.) Old; that has been of long duration; of long standing; of great age; as, an ancient forest; an ancient castle.

Ancient (a.) Known for a long time, or from early times; -- opposed to recent or new; as, the ancient continent.

Ancient (a.) Dignified, like an aged man; magisterial; venerable.

Ancient (a.) Experienced; versed.

Ancient (a.) Former; sometime.

Ancient (n.) Those who lived in former ages, as opposed to the moderns.

Ancient (n.) An aged man; a patriarch. Hence: A governor; a ruler; a person of influence.

Ancient (n.) A senior; an elder; a predecessor.

Ancient (n.) One of the senior members of the Inns of Court or of Chancery.

Ancient (n.) An ensign or flag.

Ancient (n.) The bearer of a flag; an ensign.

Anciently (adv.) In ancient times.

Anciently (adv.) In an ancient manner.

Ancientness (n.) The quality of being ancient; antiquity; existence from old times.

Ancientry (n.) Antiquity; what is ancient.

Ancientry (n.) Old age; also, old people.

Ancientry (n.) Ancient lineage; ancestry; dignity of birth.

Ancienty (n.) Age; antiquity.

Ancienty (n.) Seniority.

Ancile (n.) The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen from heaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome.

Ancillary (a.) Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary.

Ancille (n.) A maidservant; a handmaid.

Ancipital (a.) Alt. of Ancipitous

Ancipitous (a.) Two-edged instead of round; -- said of certain flattened stems, as those of blue grass, and rarely also of leaves.

Ancistroid (a.) Hook-shaped.

Ancle (n.) See Ankle.

Ancome (n.) A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow.

Ancones (pl. ) of Ancon

Ancon (n.) The olecranon, or the elbow.

Ancon (n.) Alt. of Ancone

Ancone (n.) The corner or quoin of a wall, cross-beam, or rafter.

Ancone (n.) A bracket supporting a cornice; a console.

Anconal (a.) Alt. of Anconeal

Anconeal (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancon or elbow.

Anconeus (n.) A muscle of the elbow and forearm.

Anconoid (a.) Elbowlike; anconal.

Ancony (n.) A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar in the middle, but unwrought at the ends.

-ancy () A suffix expressing more strongly than -ance the idea of quality or state; as, constancy, buoyancy, infancy.

And (conj.) A particle which expresses the relation of connection or addition. It is used to conjoin a word with a word, a clause with a clause, or a sentence with a sentence.

And (conj.) In order to; -- used instead of the infinitival to, especially after try, come, go.

And (conj.) It is sometimes, in old songs, a mere expletive.

And (conj.) If; though. See An, conj.

Andabatism (n.) Doubt; uncertainty.

Andalusite (n.) A silicate of aluminium, occurring usually in thick rhombic prisms, nearly square, of a grayish or pale reddish tint. It was first discovered in Andalusia, Spain.

Andante (a.) Moving moderately slow, but distinct and flowing; quicker than larghetto, and slower than allegretto.

Andante (n.) A movement or piece in andante time.

Andantino (a.) Rather quicker than andante; between that allegretto.

Andarac (n.) Red orpiment.

Andean (a.) Pertaining to the Andes.

Andesine (n.) A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes.

Andesite (n.) An eruptive rock allied to trachyte, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar, with pyroxene, hornblende, or hypersthene.

Andine (a.) Andean; as, Andine flora.

Andiron (n.) A utensil for supporting wood when burning in a fireplace, one being placed on each side; a firedog; as, a pair of andirons.

Andranatomy (n.) The dissection of a human body, especially of a male; androtomy.

Androecium (n.) The stamens of a flower taken collectively.

Androgyne (n.) An hermaphrodite.

Androgyne (n.) An androgynous plant.

Androgynous (a.) Alt. of Androgynal

Androgynal (a.) Uniting both sexes in one, or having the characteristics of both; being in nature both male and female; hermaphroditic.

Androgynal (a.) Bearing both staminiferous and pistilliferous flowers in the same cluster.

Androgyny (n.) Alt. of Androgynism

Androgynism (n.) Union of both sexes in one individual; hermaphroditism.

Android (n.) Alt. of Androides

Androides (n.) A machine or automaton in the form of a human being.

Android (a.) Resembling a man.

Andromeda (n.) A northern constellation, supposed to represent the mythical Andromeda.

Andromeda (n.) A genus of ericaceous flowering plants of northern climates, of which the original species was found growing on a rock surrounded by water.

Andron (n.) The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lower part of the house.

Andropetalous (a.) Produced by the conversion of the stamens into petals, as double flowers, like the garden ranunculus.

Androphagi (n. pl.) Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi.

Androphagous (a.) Anthropophagous.

Androphore (n.) A support or column on which stamens are raised.

Androphore (n.) The part which in some Siphonophora bears the male gonophores.

Androsphinx (n.) A man sphinx; a sphinx having the head of a man and the body of a lion.

Androspore (n.) A spore of some algae, which has male functions.

Androtomous (a.) Having the filaments of the stamens divided into two parts.

Androtomy (n.) Dissection of the human body, as distinguished from zootomy; anthropotomy.

androus () A terminal combining form: Having a stamen or stamens; staminate; as, monandrous, with one stamen; polyandrous, with many stamens.

Anear (prep. & adv.) Near.

Anear (v. t. & i.) To near; to approach.

Aneath (prep. & adv.) Beneath.

Anecdotage (n.) Anecdotes collectively; a collection of anecdotes.

Anecdotal (a.) Pertaining to, or abounding with, anecdotes; as, anecdotal conversation.

Anecdote (n.) Unpublished narratives.

Anecdote (n.) A particular or detached incident or fact of an interesting nature; a biographical incident or fragment; a single passage of private life.

Anecdotic (a.) Alt. of Anecdotical

Anecdotical (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or addicted to, anecdotes.

Anecdotist (n.) One who relates or collects anecdotes.

Anelace (n.) Same as Anlace.

Anele (v. t.) To anoint.

Anele (v. t.) To give extreme unction to.

Anelectric (a.) Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to idioelectric.

Anelectric (n.) A substance incapable of being electrified by friction.

Anelectrode (n.) The positive pole of a voltaic battery.

Anelectrotonus (n.) The condition of decreased irritability of a nerve in the region of the positive electrode or anode on the passage of a current of electricity through it.

Anemogram (n.) A record made by an anemograph.

Anemograph (n.) An instrument for measuring and recording the direction and force of the wind.

Anemographic (a.) Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography.

Anemography (n.) A description of the winds.

Anemography (n.) The art of recording the direction and force of the wind, as by means of an anemograph.

Anemology (n.) The science of the wind.

Anemometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the force or velocity of the wind; a wind gauge.

Anemometric (a.) Alt. of Anemometrical

Anemometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to anemometry.

Anemometrograph (n.) An anemograph.

Anemometry (n.) The act or process of ascertaining the force or velocity of the wind.

Anemone (n.) A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family; windflower. Some of the species are cultivated in gardens.

Anemone (n.) The sea anemone. See Actinia, and Sea anemone.

Anemonic (a.) An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from, the anemone, or from anemonin.

Anemonin (n.) An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from some species of anemone.

Anemony (n.) See Anemone.

Anemorphilous (a.) Fertilized by the agency of the wind; -- said of plants in which the pollen is carried to the stigma by the wind; wind-Fertilized.

Anemoscope (n.) An instrument which shows the direction of the wind; a wind vane; a weathercock; -- usually applied to a contrivance consisting of a vane above, connected in the building with a dial or index with pointers to show the changes of the wind.

Anencephalic (a.) Alt. of Anencephalous

Anencephalous (a.) Without a brain; brainless.

Anenst (a.) Alt. of Anent

Anent (a.) Over against; as, he lives anent the church.

Anent (a.) About; concerning; in respect; as, he said nothing anent this particular.

Anenterous (a.) Destitute of a stomach or an intestine.

Aneroid (a.) Containing no liquid; -- said of a kind of barometer.

Aneroid (n.) An aneroid barometer.

Anes (adv.) Once.

Anesthesia (a.) Alt. of Anesthetic

Anesthetic (a.) Same as Anaesthesia, Anaesthetic.

Anet (n.) The herb dill, or dillseed.

Anethol (n.) A substance obtained from the volatile oils of anise, fennel, etc., in the form of soft shining scales; -- called also anise camphor.

Anetic (a.) Soothing.

Aneurism (n.) A soft, pulsating, hollow tumor, containing blood, arising from the preternatural dilation or rupture of the coats of an artery.

Aneurismal (a.) Of or pertaining to an aneurism; as, an aneurismal tumor; aneurismal diathesis.

Anew (adv.) Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm anew; to create anew.

Anfractuose (a.) Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers.

Anfractuosities (pl. ) of Anfractuosity

Anfractuosity (n.) A state of being anfractuous, or full of windings and turnings; sinuosity.

Anfractuosity (n.) A sinuous depression or sulcus like those separating the convolutions of the brain.

Anfractuous (a.) Winding; full of windings and turnings; sinuous; tortuous; as, the anfractuous spires of a born.

Anfracture (n.) A mazy winding.

Angariation (n.) Exaction of forced service; compulsion.

Angeiology () Alt. of Angeiotomy

Angeiotomy () Same as Angiology, Angiotomy, etc.

Angel (n.) A messenger.

Angel (n.) A spiritual, celestial being, superior to man in power and intelligence. In the Scriptures the angels appear as God's messengers.

Angel (n.) One of a class of fallen angels; an evil spirit; as, the devil and his angels.

Angel (n.) A minister or pastor of a church, as in the Seven Asiatic churches.

Angel (n.) Attendant spirit; genius; demon.

Angel (n.) An appellation given to a person supposed to be of angelic goodness or loveliness; a darling.

Angel (n.) An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of the archangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s.

Angelage (n.) Existence or state of angels.

Angelet (n.) A small gold coin formerly current in England; a half angel.

Angel fish () See under Angel.

Angelhood (n.) The state of being an angel; angelic nature.

Angelic (a.) Alt. of Angelical

Angelical (a.) Belonging to, or proceeding from, angels; resembling, characteristic of, or partaking of the nature of, an angel; heavenly; divine.

Angelic (a.) Of or derived from angelica; as, angelic acid; angelic ether.

Angelica (n.) An aromatic umbelliferous plant (Archangelica officinalis or Angelica archangelica) the leaf stalks of which are sometimes candied and used in confectionery, and the roots and seeds as an aromatic tonic.

Angelica (n.) The candied leaf stalks of angelica.

Angelically (adv.) Like an angel.

Angelicalness (n.) The quality of being angelic; excellence more than human.

Angelify (v. t.) To make like an angel; to angelize.

Angelize (v. t.) To raise to the state of an angel; to render angelic.

Angellike (a. & adv.) Resembling an angel.

Angelolatry (n.) Worship paid to angels.

Angelology (n.) A discourse on angels, or a body of doctrines in regard to angels.

Angelophany (n.) The actual appearance of an angel to man.

Angelot (n.) A French gold coin of the reign of Louis XI., bearing the image of St. Michael; also, a piece coined at Paris by the English under Henry VI.

Angelot (n.) An instrument of music, of the lute kind, now disused.

Angelot (n.) A sort of small, rich cheese, made in Normandy.

Angelus (n.) A form of devotion in which three Ave Marias are repeated. It is said at morning, noon, and evening, at the sound of a bell.

Angelus (n.) The Angelus bell.

Anger (n.) Trouble; vexation; also, physical pain or smart of a sore, etc.

Anger (n.) A strong passion or emotion of displeasure or antagonism, excited by a real or supposed injury or insult to one's self or others, or by the intent to do such injury.

Angered (imp. & p. p.) of Anger

Angering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anger

Anger (v. t.) To make painful; to cause to smart; to inflame.

Anger (v. t.) To excite to anger; to enrage; to provoke.

Angerly (adv.) Angrily.

Angevine (a.) Of or pertaining to Anjou in France.

Angevine (n.) A native of Anjou.

Angienchyma (n.) Vascular tissue of plants, consisting of spiral vessels, dotted, barred, and pitted ducts, and laticiferous vessels.

Angina (n.) Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as the quinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tends to produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath.

Anginous (a.) Alt. of Anginose

Anginose (a.) Pertaining to angina or angina pectoris.

Angio- () A prefix, or combining form, in numerous compounds, usually relating to seed or blood vessels, or to something contained in, or covered by, a vessel.

Angiocarpous (a.) Having fruit inclosed within a covering that does not form a part of itself; as, the filbert covered by its husk, or the acorn seated in its cupule.

Angiocarpous (a.) Having the seeds or spores covered, as in certain lichens.

Angiography (n.) A description of blood vessels and lymphatics.

Angiology (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of blood vessels and lymphatics.

Angioma (n.) A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood vessels.

Angiomonospermous (a.) Producing one seed only in a seed pod.

Angioscope (n.) An instrument for examining the capillary vessels of animals and plants.

Angiosperm (n.) A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.

Angiospermatous (a.) Same as Angiospermous.

Angiospermous (a.) Having seeds inclosed in a pod or other pericarp.

Angiosporous (a.) Having spores contained in cells or thecae, as in the case of some fungi.

Angiostomous (a.) With a narrow mouth, as the shell of certain gastropods.

Angiotomy (n.) Dissection of the blood vessels and lymphatics of the body.

Angle (n.) The inclosed space near the point where two lines meet; a corner; a nook.

Angle (n.) The figure made by. two lines which meet.

Angle (n.) The difference of direction of two lines. In the lines meet, the point of meeting is the vertex of the angle.

Angle (n.) A projecting or sharp corner; an angular fragment.

Angle (n.) A name given to four of the twelve astrological houses.

Angle (n.) A fishhook; tackle for catching fish, consisting of a line, hook, and bait, with or without a rod.

Angled (imp. & p. p.) of Angle

Angling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Angle

Angle (v. i.) To fish with an angle (fishhook), or with hook and line.

Angle (v. i.) To use some bait or artifice; to intrigue; to scheme; as, to angle for praise.

Angle (v. t.) To try to gain by some insinuating artifice; to allure.

Angled (a.) Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right-angled, many-angled, etc.

Anglemeter (n.) An instrument to measure angles, esp. one used by geologists to measure the dip of strata.

Angler (n.) One who angles.

Angler (n.) A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having a large, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiar appendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes within reach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish, allmouth, monkfish, etc.

Angles (n. pl.) An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, which came to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England). The Angles probably came from the district of Angeln (now within the limits of Schleswig), and the country now Lower Hanover, etc.

Anglesite (n.) A native sulphate of lead. It occurs in white or yellowish transparent, prismatic crystals.

Anglewise (adv.) In an angular manner; angularly.

Angleworm (n.) A earthworm of the genus Lumbricus, frequently used by anglers for bait. See Earthworm.

Anglian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Angles.

Anglian (n.) One of the Angles.

Anglic (a.) Anglian.

Anglican (a.) English; of or pertaining to England or the English nation; especially, pertaining to, or connected with, the established church of England; as, the Anglican church, doctrine, orders, ritual, etc.

Anglican (a.) Pertaining to, characteristic of, or held by, the high church party of the Church of England.

Anglican (n.) A member of the Church of England.

Anglican (n.) In a restricted sense, a member of the High Church party, or of the more advanced ritualistic section, in the Church of England.

Anglicanism (n.) Strong partiality to the principles and rites of the Church of England.

Anglicanism (n.) The principles of the established church of England; also, in a restricted sense, the doctrines held by the high-church party.

Anglicanism (n.) Attachment to England or English institutions.

Anglice (adv.) In English; in the English manner; as, Livorno, Anglice Leghorn.

Anglicify (v. t.) To anglicize.

Anglicism (n.) An English idiom; a phrase or form language peculiar to the English.

Anglicism (n.) The quality of being English; an English characteristic, custom, or method.

Anglicity (n.) The state or quality of being English.

Anglicization (n.) The act of anglicizing, or making English in character.

Anglicized (imp. & p. p.) of Anglicize

Anglicizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anglicize

Anglicize (v. t.) To make English; to English; to anglify; render conformable to the English idiom, or to English analogies.

Anglified (imp. & p. p.) of Anglify

Anglifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anglify

Anglify (v. t.) To convert into English; to anglicize.

Angling (n.) The act of one who angles; the art of fishing with rod and line.

Anglo- () A combining form meaning the same as English; or English and, or English conjoined with; as, Anglo-Turkish treaty, Anglo-German, Anglo-Irish.

Anglo-Catholic (a.) Of or pertaining to a church modeled on the English Reformation; Anglican; -- sometimes restricted to the ritualistic or High Church section of the Church of England.

Anglo-Catholic (n.) A member of the Church of England who contends for its catholic character; more specifically, a High Churchman.

Anglomania (n.) A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, English customs, institutions, etc.

Anglomaniac (n.) One affected with Anglomania.

Anglophobia (n.) Intense dread of, or aversion to, England or the English.

Anglo-Saxon (n.) A Saxon of Britain, that is, an English Saxon, or one the Saxons who settled in England, as distinguished from a continental (or Old) Saxon.

Anglo-Saxon (n.) The Teutonic people (Angles, Saxons, Jutes) of England, or the English people, collectively, before the Norman Conquest.

Anglo-Saxon (n.) The language of the English people before the Conquest (sometimes called Old English). See Saxon.

Anglo-Saxon (n.) One of the race or people who claim descent from the Saxons, Angles, or other Teutonic tribes who settled in England; a person of English descent in its broadest sense.

Anglo-Saxon (a.) Of or pertaining to the Anglo-Saxons or their language.

Anglo-Saxondom (n.) The Anglo-Saxon domain (i. e., Great Britain and the United States, etc.); the Anglo-Saxon race.

Anglo-Saxonism (n.) A characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race; especially, a word or an idiom of the Anglo-Saxon tongue.

Anglo-Saxonism (n.) The quality or sentiment of being Anglo-Saxon, or English in its ethnological sense.

Angola (n.) A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.

Angola pea () A tropical plant (Cajanus indicus) and its edible seed, a kind of pulse; -- so called from Angola in Western Africa. Called also pigeon pea and Congo pea.

Angor (n.) Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upper part of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression.

Angora (n.) A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name to a goat, a cat, etc.

Angostura bark () An aromatic bark used as a tonic, obtained from a South American of the rue family (Galipea cusparia, / officinalis).

Angoumois moth () A small moth (Gelechia cerealella) which is very destructive to wheat and other grain. The larva eats out the interior of the grain, leaving only the shell.

Angrily (adv.) In an angry manner; under the influence of anger.

Angriness (n.) The quality of being angry, or of being inclined to anger.

Angry (superl.) Troublesome; vexatious; rigorous.

Angry (superl.) Inflamed and painful, as a sore.

Angry (superl.) Touched with anger; under the emotion of anger; feeling resentment; enraged; -- followed generally by with before a person, and at before a thing.

Angry (superl.) Showing anger; proceeding from anger; acting as if moved by anger; wearing the marks of anger; as, angry words or tones; an angry sky; angry waves.

Angry (superl.) Red.

Angry (superl.) Sharp; keen; stimulated.

Anguiform (a.) Snake-shaped.

Anguilliform (a.) Eel-shaped.

Anguine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a snake or serpent.

Anguineal (a.) Anguineous.

Anguineous (a.) Snakelike.

Anguish (n.) Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress.

Anguish (v. t.) To distress with extreme pain or grief.

Angular (a.) Relating to an angle or to angles; having an angle or angles; forming an angle or corner; sharp-cornered; pointed; as, an angular figure.

Angular (a.) Measured by an angle; as, angular distance.

Angular (a.) Fig.: Lean; lank; raw-boned; ungraceful; sharp and stiff in character; as, remarkably angular in his habits and appearance; an angular female.

Angular (n.) A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles, and fishes.

Angularity (n.) The quality or state of being angular; angularness.

Angularly (adv.) In an angular manner; with of at angles or corners.

Angularness (n.) The quality of being angular.

Angulate (a.) Alt. of Angulated

Angulated (a.) Having angles or corners; angled; as, angulate leaves.

Angulate (v. t.) To make angular.

Angulation (n.) A making angular; angular formation.

Angulo-dentate (a.) Angularly toothed, as certain leaves.

Angulometer (n.) An instrument for measuring external angles.

Angulose (a.) Angulous.

Angulosity (n.) A state of being angulous or angular.

Angulous (a.) Angular; having corners; hooked.

Angust (a.) Narrow; strait.

Angustate (a.) Narrowed.

Angustation (n.) The act of making narrow; a straitening or contacting.

Angustifoliate (a.) Alt. of Angustifolious

Angustifolious (a.) Having narrow leaves.

Angustura bark () See Angostura bark.

Angwantibo (n.) A small lemuroid mammal (Arctocebus Calabarensis) of Africa. It has only a rudimentary tail.

Anhang (v. t.) To hang.

Anharmonic (a.) Not harmonic.

Anhelation (n.) Short and rapid breathing; a panting; asthma.

Anhele (v. i.) To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for).

Anhelose (a.) Anhelous; panting.

Anhelous (a.) Short of breath; panting.

Anhima (n.) A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi (Palamedea cornuta). See Kamichi.

Anhinga (n.) An aquatic bird of the southern United States (Platus anhinga); the darter, or snakebird.

Anhistous (a.) Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane.

Anhungered (a.) Ahungered; longing.

Anhydride (n.) An oxide of a nonmetallic body or an organic radical, capable of forming an acid by uniting with the elements of water; -- so called because it may be formed from an acid by the abstraction of water.

Anhydrite (n.) A mineral of a white or a slightly bluish color, usually massive. It is anhydrous sulphate of lime, and differs from gypsum in not containing water (whence the name).

Anhydrous (a.) Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.

Ani (n.) Alt. of Ano

Ano (n.) A black bird of tropical America, the West Indies and Florida (Crotophaga ani), allied to the cuckoos, and remarkable for communistic nesting.

Anicut (n.) Alt. of Annicut

Annicut (n.) A dam or mole made in the course of a stream for the purpose of regulating the flow of a system of irrigation.

Anidiomatical (a.) Not idiomatic.

Anient (v. t.) Alt. of Anientise

Anientise (v. t.) To frustrate; to bring to naught; to annihilate.

Anigh (prep. & adv.) Nigh.

Anight (adv.) Alt. of Anights

Anights (adv.) In the night time; at night.

Anil (n.) A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the original sources of indigo; also, the indigo dye.

Anile (a.) Old-womanish; imbecile.

Anileness (n.) Anility.

Anilic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied to an acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo.

Anilide (n.) One of a class of compounds which may be regarded as amides in which more or less of the hydrogen has been replaced by phenyl.

Aniline (n.) An organic base belonging to the phenylamines. It may be regarded as ammonia in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced by the radical phenyl. It is a colorless, oily liquid, originally obtained from indigo by distillation, but now largely manufactured from coal tar or nitrobenzene as a base from which many brilliant dyes are made.

Aniline (a.) Made from, or of the nature of, aniline.

Anility (n.) The state of being and old woman; old-womanishness; dotage.

Animadversal (n.) The faculty of perceiving; a percipient.

Animadversion (n.) The act or power of perceiving or taking notice; direct or simple perception.

Animadversion (n.) Monition; warning.

Animadversion (n.) Remarks by way of criticism and usually of censure; adverse criticism; reproof; blame.

Animadversion (n.) Judicial cognizance of an offense; chastisement; punishment.

Animadversive (a.) Having the power of perceiving; percipient.

Animadverted (imp. & p. p.) of Animadvert

Animadverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Animadvert

Animadvert (v. i.) To take notice; to observe; -- commonly followed by that.

Animadvert (v. i.) To consider or remark by way of criticism or censure; to express censure; -- with on or upon.

Animadvert (v. i.) To take cognizance judicially; to inflict punishment.

Animadverter (n.) One who animadverts; a censurer; also [Obs.], a chastiser.

Animal (n.) An organized living being endowed with sensation and the power of voluntary motion, and also characterized by taking its food into an internal cavity or stomach for digestion; by giving carbonic acid to the air and taking oxygen in the process of respiration; and by increasing in motive power or active aggressive force with progress to maturity.

Animal (n.) One of the lower animals; a brute or beast, as distinguished from man; as, men and animals.

Animal (a.) Of or relating to animals; as, animal functions.

Animal (a.) Pertaining to the merely sentient part of a creature, as distinguished from the intellectual, rational, or spiritual part; as, the animal passions or appetites.

Animal (a.) Consisting of the flesh of animals; as, animal food.

Animalcular (a.) Alt. of Animalculine

Animalculine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules.

Animalcule (n.) A small animal, as a fly, spider, etc.

Animalcule (n.) An animal, invisible, or nearly so, to the naked eye. See Infusoria.

Animalculism (n.) The theory which seeks to explain certain physiological and pathological phenomena by means of animalcules.

Animalculist (n.) One versed in the knowledge of animalcules.

Animalculist (n.) A believer in the theory of animalculism.

Animalcula (pl. ) of Animalculum

Animalculum (n.) An animalcule.

Animalish (a.) Like an animal.

Animalism (n.) The state, activity, or enjoyment of animals; mere animal life without intellectual or moral qualities; sensuality.

Animality (n.) Animal existence or nature.

Animalization (n.) The act of animalizing; the giving of animal life, or endowing with animal properties.

Animalization (n.) Conversion into animal matter by the process of assimilation.

Animalized (imp. & p. p.) of Animalize

Animalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Animalize

Animalize (v. t.) To endow with the properties of an animal; to represent in animal form.

Animalize (v. t.) To convert into animal matter by the processes of assimilation.

Animalize (v. t.) To render animal or sentient; to reduce to the state of a lower animal; to sensualize.

Animally (adv.) Physically.

Animalness (n.) Animality.

Animastic (a.) Pertaining to mind or spirit; spiritual.

Animastic (n.) Psychology.

Animated (imp. & p. p.) of Animate

Animating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Animate

Animate (v. t.) To give natural life to; to make alive; to quicken; as, the soul animates the body.

Animate (v. t.) To give powers to, or to heighten the powers or effect of; as, to animate a lyre.

Animate (v. t.) To give spirit or vigor to; to stimulate or incite; to inspirit; to rouse; to enliven.

Animate (a.) Endowed with life; alive; living; animated; lively.

Animated (a.) Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicating animation; lively; vigorous.

Animatedly (adv.) With animation.

Animater (n.) One who animates.

Animating (a.) Causing animation; life-giving; inspiriting; rousing.

Animation (n.) The act of animating, or giving life or spirit; the state of being animate or alive.

Animation (n.) The state of being lively, brisk, or full of spirit and vigor; vivacity; spiritedness; as, he recited the story with great animation.

Animative (a.) Having the power of giving life or spirit.

Animator (n.) One who, or that which, animates; an animater.

Anime (a.) Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of the eyes of a rapacious animal.

Anime (n.) A resin exuding from a tropical American tree (Hymenaea courbaril), and much used by varnish makers.

Animism (n.) The doctrine, taught by Stahl, that the soul is the proper principle of life and development in the body.

Animism (n.) The belief that inanimate objects and the phenomena of nature are endowed with personal life or a living soul; also, in an extended sense, the belief in the existence of soul or spirit apart from matter.

Animist (n.) One who maintains the doctrine of animism.

Animistic (a.) Of or pertaining to animism.

Animose (a.) Alt. of Animous

Animous (a.) Full of spirit; hot; vehement; resolute.

Animoseness (n.) Vehemence of temper.

Animosities (pl. ) of Animosity

Animosity (v. t.) Mere spiritedness or courage.

Animosity (v. t.) Violent hatred leading to active opposition; active enmity; energetic dislike.

Animi (pl. ) of Animus

Animus (n.) Animating spirit; intention; temper.

Anion (n.) An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro-chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to cation.

Anise (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally in Egypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative and aromatic seeds.

Anise (n.) The fruit or seeds of this plant.

Aniseed (n.) The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it.

Anisette (n.) A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds.

Anisic (a.) Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol.

Anisodactyla (n. pl.) Alt. of Anisodactyls

Anisodactyls (n. pl.) A group of herbivorous mammals characterized by having the hoofs in a single series around the foot, as the elephant, rhinoceros, etc.

Anisodactyls (n. pl.) A group of perching birds which are anisodactylous.

Anisodactylous (a.) Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and one backward, as in most passerine birds.

Anisomeric (a.) Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the same proportions.

Anisomerous (a.) Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals and six stamens.

Anisometric (a.) Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystals with three unequal axes.

Anisopetalous (a.) Having unequal petals.

Anisophyllous (a.) Having unequal leaves.

Anisopleura (n. pl.) A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiral shells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed.

Anisopoda (n. pl.) A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, is intermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda.

Anisostemonous (a.) Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number from the petals.

Anisosthenic (a.) Of unequal strength.

Anisotrope (a.) Alt. of Anisotropic

Anisotropic (a.) Not isotropic; having different properties in different directions; thus, crystals of the isometric system are optically isotropic, but all other crystals are anisotropic.

Anisotropous (a.) Anisotropic.

Anker (n.) A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutch anker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the old wine gallons, or 8/ imperial gallons.

Ankerite (n.) A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron.

Ankle (n.) The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.

Ankled (a.) Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled.

Anklet (n.) An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.

Ankylose (v. t. & i.) Same as Anchylose.

Ankylosis (n.) Same as Anchylosis.

Anlace (n.) A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle.

Ann (n.) Alt. of Annat

Annat (n.) A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease.

Anna (n.) An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or about 2/ cents.

Annal (n.) See Annals.

Annalist (n.) A writer of annals.

Annalistic (a.) Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dry annalistic style.

Annalize (v. t.) To record in annals.

Annals (n. pl.) A relation of events in chronological order, each event being recorded under the year in which it happened.

Annals (n. pl.) Historical records; chronicles; history.

Annals (n. pl.) The record of a single event or item.

Annals (n. pl.) A periodic publication, containing records of discoveries, transactions of societies, etc.; as Annals of Science.

Annats (n. pl.) Alt. of Annates

Annates (n. pl.) The first year's profits of a spiritual preferment, anciently paid by the clergy to the pope; first fruits. In England, they now form a fund for the augmentation of poor livings.

Annealed (imp. & p. p.) of Anneal

Annealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anneal

Anneal (v. t.) To subject to great heat, and then cool slowly, as glass, cast iron, steel, or other metal, for the purpose of rendering it less brittle; to temper; to toughen.

Anneal (v. t.) To heat, as glass, tiles, or earthenware, in order to fix the colors laid on them.

Annealer (n.) One who, or that which, anneals.

Annealing (n.) The process used to render glass, iron, etc., less brittle, performed by allowing them to cool very gradually from a high heat.

Annealing (n.) The burning of metallic colors into glass, earthenware, etc.

Annectent (a.) Connecting; annexing.

Annelid (a.) Alt. of Annelidan

Annelidan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Annelida.

Annelidan (n.) One of the Annelida.

Annelida (n. pl.) A division of the Articulata, having the body formed of numerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs. The principal subdivisions are the Chaetopoda, including the Oligochaeta or earthworms and Polychaeta or marine worms; and the Hirudinea or leeches. See Chaetopoda.

Annelidous (a.) Of the nature of an annelid.

Annellata (n. pl.) See Annelida.

Anneloid (n.) An animal resembling an annelid.

Annexed (imp. & p. p.) of Annex

Annexing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annex

Annex (v. t.) To join or attach; usually to subjoin; to affix; to append; -- followed by to.

Annex (v. t.) To join or add, as a smaller thing to a greater.

Annex (v. t.) To attach or connect, as a consequence, condition, etc.; as, to annex a penalty to a prohibition, or punishment to guilt.

Annex (v. i.) To join; to be united.

Annex (n.) Something annexed or appended; as, an additional stipulation to a writing, a subsidiary building to a main building; a wing.

Annexation (v. t.) The act of annexing; process of attaching, adding, or appending; the act of connecting; union; as, the annexation of Texas to the United States, or of chattels to the freehold.

Annexation (v. t.) The union of property with a freehold so as to become a fixture. Bouvier. (b) (Scots Law) The appropriation of lands or rents to the crown.

Annexationist (n.) One who favors annexation.

Annexer (n.) One who annexes.

Annexion (n.) Annexation.

Annexionist (n.) An annexationist.

Annexment (n.) The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage.

Annihilable (a.) Capable of being annihilated.

Annihilated (imp. & p. p.) of Annihilate

Annihilating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annihilate

Annihilate (v. t.) To reduce to nothing or nonexistence; to destroy the existence of; to cause to cease to be.

Annihilate (v. t.) To destroy the form or peculiar distinctive properties of, so that the specific thing no longer exists; as, to annihilate a forest by cutting down the trees.

Annihilate (v. t.) To destroy or eradicate, as a property or attribute of a thing; to make of no effect; to destroy the force, etc., of; as, to annihilate an argument, law, rights, goodness.

Annihilate (a.) Annihilated.

Annihilation (n.) The act of reducing to nothing, or nonexistence; or the act of destroying the form or combination of parts under which a thing exists, so that the name can no longer be applied to it; as, the annihilation of a corporation.

Annihilation (n.) The state of being annihilated.

Annihilationist (n.) One who believes that eternal punishment consists in annihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist.

Annihilative (a.) Serving to annihilate; destructive.

Annihilator (n.) One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator.

Annihilatory (a.) Annihilative.

Anniversarily (adv.) Annually.

Anniversary (a.) Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as, an anniversary feast.

Anniversaries (pl. ) of Anniversary

Anniversary (n.) The annual return of the day on which any notable event took place, or is wont to be celebrated; as, the anniversary of the Declaration of Independence.

Anniversary (n.) The day on which Mass is said yearly for the soul of a deceased person; the commemoration of some sacred event, as the dedication of a church or the consecration of a pope.

Anniversary (n.) The celebration which takes place on an anniversary day.

Anniverse (n.) Anniversary.

Annodated (a.) Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S.

Anno Domini () In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887.

Annominate (v. t.) To name.

Annomination (n.) Paronomasia; punning.

Annomination (n.) Alliteration.

Annotated (imp. & p. p.) of Annotate

Annotating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annotate

Annotate (n.) To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works of Bacon.

Annotate (v. i.) To make notes or comments; -- with on or upon.

Annotation (n.) A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually in the plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or a passage.

Annotationist (n.) An annotator.

Annotative (a.) Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation.

Annotator (n.) A writer of annotations; a commentator.

Annotatory (a.) Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations.

Annotine (n.) A bird one year old, or that has once molted.

Annotinous (a.) A year old; in Yearly growths.

Annotto (n.) Alt. of Arnotto

Arnotto (n.) A red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the tropical regions of America. It is used for coloring cheese, butter, etc.

Announced (imp. & p. p.) of Announce

Announcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Announce

Announce (v. t.) To give public notice, or first notice of; to make known; to publish; to proclaim.

Announce (v. t.) To pronounce; to declare by judicial sentence.

Announcement (n.) The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces; proclamation; publication.

Announcer (n.) One who announces.

Annoyed (imp. & p. p.) of Annoy

Annoying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annoy

Annoy (n.) To disturb or irritate, especially by continued or repeated acts; to tease; to ruffle in mind; to vex; as, I was annoyed by his remarks.

Annoy (n.) To molest, incommode, or harm; as, to annoy an army by impeding its march, or by a cannonade.

Annoy (n.) A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what one dislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy.

Annoyance (n.) The act of annoying, or the state of being annoyed; molestation; vexation; annoy.

Annoyance (n.) That which annoys.

Annoyer (n.) One who, or that which, annoys.

Annoyful (a.) Annoying.

Annoying (a.) That annoys; molesting; vexatious.

Annoyous (a.) Troublesome; annoying.

Annual (a.) Of or pertaining to a year; returning every year; coming or happening once in the year; yearly.

Annual (a.) Performed or accomplished in a year; reckoned by the year; as, the annual motion of the earth.

Annual (a.) Lasting or continuing only one year or one growing season; requiring to be renewed every year; as, an annual plant; annual tickets.

Annual (n.) A thing happening or returning yearly; esp. a literary work published once a year.

Annual (n.) Anything, especially a plant, that lasts but one year or season; an annual plant.

Annual (n.) A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, said daily for a year or on the anniversary day.

Annualist (n.) One who writes for, or who edits, an annual.

Annually (adv.) Yearly; year by year.

Annuary (a.) Annual.

Annuary (n.) A yearbook.

Annueler (n.) A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses.

Annuent (a.) Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding).

Annuitant (n.) One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity.

Annuities (pl. ) of Annuity

Annuity (n.) A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given number of years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.

Annulled (imp. & p. p.) of Annul

Annulling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annul

Annul (a.) To reduce to nothing; to obliterate.

Annul (a.) To make void or of no effect; to nullify; to abolish; to do away with; -- used appropriately of laws, decrees, edicts, decisions of courts, or other established rules, permanent usages, and the like, which are made void by component authority.

Annular (a.) Pertaining to, or having the form of, a ring; forming a ring; ringed; ring-shaped; as, annular fibers.

Annular (a.) Banded or marked with circles.

Annularity (n.) Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula.

Annularry (adv.) In an annular manner.

Annulary (a.) Having the form of a ring; annular.

Annulata (n. pl.) A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida, including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma, leeches, etc. See Annelida.

Annulate (n.) One of the Annulata.

Annulate (a.) Alt. of Annulated

Annulated (a.) Furnished with, or composed of, rings; ringed; surrounded by rings of color.

Annulated (a.) Of or pertaining to the Annulata.

Annulation (n.) A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt.

Annulet (n.) A little ring.

Annulet (n.) A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used by itself, or with other moldings. It is used, several times repeated, under the Doric capital.

Annulet (n.) A little circle borne as a charge.

Annulet (n.) A narrow circle of some distinct color on a surface or round an organ.

Annullable (a.) That may be Annulled.

Annuller (n.) One who annuls.

Annulment (n.) The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation.

Annuloid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Annuloida.

Annuloida (n. pl.) A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and allied groups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms.

Annulosa (n. pl.) A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to the Articulata. It includes the Arthoropoda and Anarthropoda. By some zoologists it is applied to the former only.

Annulosan (n.) One of the Annulosa.

Annulose (a.) Furnished with, or composed of, rings or ringlike segments; ringed.

Annulose (a.) Of or pertaining to the Annulosa.

Annuli (pl. ) of Annulus

Annulus (n.) A ring; a ringlike part or space.

Annulus (n.) A space contained between the circumferences of two circles, one within the other.

Annulus (n.) The solid formed by a circle revolving around a line which is the plane of the circle but does not cut it.

Annulus (n.) Ring-shaped structures or markings, found in, or upon, various animals.

Annumerate (v. t.) To add on; to count in.

Annumeration (n.) Addition to a former number.

Annunciable (a.) That may be announced or declared; declarable.

Annunciated (imp. & p. p.) of Annunciate

Annunciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annunciate

Annunciate (v. t.) To announce.

Annunciate (p. p. & a.) Foretold; preannounced.

Annunciation (n.) The act of announcing; announcement; proclamation; as, the annunciation of peace.

Annunciation (n.) The announcement of the incarnation, made by the angel Gabriel to the Virgin Mary.

Annunciation (n.) The festival celebrated (March 25th) by the Church of England, of Rome, etc., in memory of the angel's announcement, on that day; Lady Day.

Annunciative (a.) Pertaining to annunciation; announcing.

Annunciator (n.) One who announces. Specifically: An officer in the church of Constantinople, whose business it was to inform the people of the festivals to be celebrated.

Annunciator (n.) An indicator (as in a hotel) which designates the room where attendance is wanted.

Annunciatory (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known.

Anoa (n.) A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to the buffalo, but having long nearly straight horns.

Anode (n.) The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to the other pole; -- opposed to cathode.

Anodon (n.) A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having no teeth at the hinge.

Anodyne (a.) Serving to assuage pain; soothing.

Anodyne (a.) Any medicine which allays pain, as an opiate or narcotic; anything that soothes disturbed feelings.

Anodynous (a.) Anodyne.

Anoil (v. t.) To anoint with oil.

Anointed (imp. & p. p.) of Anoint

Anointing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anoint

Anoint (v. t.) To smear or rub over with oil or an unctuous substance; also, to spread over, as oil.

Anoint (v. t.) To apply oil to or to pour oil upon, etc., as a sacred rite, especially for consecration.

Anoint (p. p.) Anointed.

Anointer (n.) One who anoints.

Anointment (n.) The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, an ointment.

Anolis (n.) A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidae. They take the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and in America are often called chameleons.

Anomal (n.) Anything anomalous.

Anomaliped (a.) Alt. of Anomalipede

Anomalipede (a.) Having anomalous feet.

Anomaliped (n.) One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more or less united to the outer and inner ones.

Anomalism (n.) An anomaly; a deviation from rule.

Anomalistic (a.) Alt. of Anomalistical

Anomalistical (a.) Irregular; departing from common or established rules.

Anomalistical (a.) Pertaining to the anomaly, or angular distance of a planet from its perihelion.

Anomalistically (adv.) With irregularity.

Anomaloflorous (a.) Having anomalous flowers.

Anomalous (a.) Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal; irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding.

Anomalously (adv.) In an anomalous manner.

Anomalousness (n.) Quality of being anomalous.

Anomalies (pl. ) of Anomaly

Anomaly (n.) Deviation from the common rule; an irregularity; anything anomalous.

Anomaly (n.) The angular distance of a planet from its perihelion, as seen from the sun. This is the true anomaly. The eccentric anomaly is a corresponding angle at the center of the elliptic orbit of the planet. The mean anomaly is what the anomaly would be if the planet's angular motion were uniform.

Anomaly (n.) The angle measuring apparent irregularities in the motion of a planet.

Anomaly (n.) Any deviation from the essential characteristics of a specific type.

Anomia (n.) A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for attachment.

Anomophyllous (a.) Having leaves irregularly placed.

Anomura (n. pl.) Alt. of Anomoura

Anomoura (n. pl.) A group of decapod Crustacea, of which the hermit crab in an example.

Anomural (a.) Alt. of Anomuran

Anomuran (a.) Irregular in the character of the tail or abdomen; as, the anomural crustaceans.

Anomuran (n.) One of the Anomura.

Anomy (n.) Disregard or violation of law.

Anon (adv.) Straightway; at once.

Anon (adv.) Soon; in a little while.

Anon (adv.) At another time; then; again.

Anona (n.) A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order Anonaceae, including the soursop.

Anonaceous (a.) Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop, custard apple, etc.

Anonym (n.) One who is anonymous; also sometimes used for pseudonym.

Anonym (n.) A notion which has no name, or which can not be expressed by a single English word.

Anonymity (n.) The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also, that which anonymous.

Anonymous (a.) Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown or unavowed authorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet or letter.

Anonymously (adv.) In an anonymous manner; without a name.

Anonymousness (n.) The state or quality of being anonymous.

Anophyte (n.) A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usually an upward growth and distinct leaves.

Anopla (n. pl.) One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.

Anoplothere (n.) Alt. of Anoplotherium

Anoplotherium (n.) A genus of extinct quadrupeds of the order Ungulata, whose were first found in the gypsum quarries near Paris; characterized by the shortness and feebleness of their canine teeth (whence the name).

Anoplura (n. pl.) A group of insects which includes the lice.

Anopsia (a.) Alt. of Anopsy

Anopsy (a.) Want or defect of sight; blindness.

Anorexia (n.) Alt. of Anorexy

Anorexy (n.) Want of appetite, without a loathing of food.

Anormal (a.) Not according to rule; abnormal.

Anorn (v. t.) To adorn.

Anorthic (a.) Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals.

Anorthite (n.) A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in small glassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks. It is a lime feldspar. See Feldspar.

Anorthoscope (n.) An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures by means of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures are painted.

Anosmia (n.) Loss of the sense of smell.

Another (pron. & a.) One more, in addition to a former number; a second or additional one, similar in likeness or in effect.

Another (pron. & a.) Not the same; different.

Another (pron. & a.) Any or some; any different person, indefinitely; any one else; some one else.

Another-gaines (a.) Of another kind.

Another-gates (a.) Of another sort.

Another-guess (a.) Of another sort.

Anotta (n.) See Annotto.

Anoura (n.) See Anura.

Anourous (a.) See Anurous.

Ansae (pl. ) of Ansa

Ansa (n.) A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.

Ansated (a.) Having a handle.

Anserated (a.) Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions, etc.; as, an anserated cross.

Anseres (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbed feet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe. In this order were included the geese, ducks, auks, divers, gulls, petrels, etc.

Anseriformes (n. pl.) A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closely allied forms.

Anserine (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a goose, or the skin of a goose.

Anserine (a.) Pertaining to the Anseres.

Anserous (a.) Resembling a goose; silly; simple.

Answered (imp. & p. p.) of Answer

Answering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Answer

Answer (n.) To speak in defense against; to reply to in defense; as, to answer a charge; to answer an accusation.

Answer (n.) To speak or write in return to, as in return to a call or question, or to a speech, declaration, argument, or the like; to reply to (a question, remark, etc.); to respond to.

Answer (n.) To respond to satisfactorily; to meet successfully by way of explanation, argument, or justification, and the like; to refute.

Answer (n.) To be or act in return or response to.

Answer (n.) To be or act in compliance with, in fulfillment or satisfaction of, as an order, obligation, demand; as, he answered my claim upon him; the servant answered the bell.

Answer (n.) To render account to or for.

Answer (n.) To atone; to be punished for.

Answer (n.) To be opposite to; to face.

Answer (n.) To be or act an equivalent to, or as adequate or sufficient for; to serve for; to repay.

Answer (n.) To be or act in accommodation, conformity, relation, or proportion to; to correspond to; to suit.

Answer (v. i.) To speak or write by way of return (originally, to a charge), or in reply; to make response.

Answer (v. i.) To make a satisfactory response or return.

Answer (v. i.) To render account, or to be responsible; to be accountable; to make amends; as, the man must answer to his employer for the money intrusted to his care.

Answer (v. i.) To be or act in return.

Answer (v. i.) To be or act by way of compliance, fulfillment, reciprocation, or satisfaction; to serve the purpose; as, gypsum answers as a manure on some soils.

Answer (v. i.) To be opposite, or to act in opposition.

Answer (v. i.) To be or act as an equivalent, or as adequate or sufficient; as, a very few will answer.

Answer (v. i.) To be or act in conformity, or by way of accommodation, correspondence, relation, or proportion; to conform; to correspond; to suit; -- usually with to.

Answer (n.) A reply to a change; a defense.

Answer (n.) Something said or written in reply to a question, a call, an argument, an address, or the like; a reply.

Answer (n.) Something done in return for, or in consequence of, something else; a responsive action.

Answer (n.) A solution, the result of a mathematical operation; as, the answer to a problem.

Answer (n.) A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; a confutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsive declaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is the usual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill.

Answerable (a.) Obliged to answer; liable to be called to account; liable to pay, indemnify, or make good; accountable; amenable; responsible; as, an agent is answerable to his principal; to be answerable for a debt, or for damages.

Answerable (a.) Capable of being answered or refuted; admitting a satisfactory answer.

Answerable (a.) Correspondent; conformable; hence, comparable.

Answerable (a.) Proportionate; commensurate; suitable; as, an achievement answerable to the preparation for it.

Answerable (a.) Equal; equivalent; adequate.

Answerableness (n.) The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, or correspondent.

Answerably (adv.) In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence; suitably.

Answerer (n.) One who answers.

Answerless (a.) Having no answer, or impossible to be answered.

An 't () An it, that is, and it or if it. See An, conj.

An't () A contraction for are and am not; also used for is not; -- now usually written ain't.

Ant- () See Anti-, prefix.

-ant () A suffix sometimes marking the agent for action; as, merchant, covenant, servant, pleasant, etc. Cf. -ent.

Ant (n.) A hymenopterous insect of the Linnaean genus Formica, which is now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.

Antae (pl. ) of Anta

Anta (n.) A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and base.

Antacid (n.) A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.

Antacid (a.) Counteractive of acidity.

Antacrid (a.) Corrective of acrimony of the humors.

Antaean (a.) Pertaining to Antaeus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules.

Antagonism (n.) Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things or principles.

Antagonist (n.) One who contends with another, especially in combat; an adversary; an opponent.

Antagonist (n.) A muscle which acts in opposition to another; as a flexor, which bends a part, is the antagonist of an extensor, which extends it.

Antagonist (n.) A medicine which opposes the action of another medicine or of a poison when absorbed into the blood or tissues.

Antagonist (a.) Antagonistic; opposing; counteracting; as, antagonist schools of philosophy.

Antagonistic (a.) Alt. of Antagonistical

Antagonistical (a.) Opposing in combat, combating; contending or acting against; as, antagonistic forces.

Antagonized (imp. & p. p.) of Antagonize

Antagonozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Antagonize

Antagonize (v. t.) To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract.

Antagonize (v. i.) To act in opposition.

Antagony (n.) Contest; opposition; antagonism.

Antalgic (a.) Alleviating pain.

Antalgic (n.) A medicine to alleviate pain; an anodyne.

Antalkali (n.) Alt. of Antalkaline

Antalkaline (n.) Anything that neutralizes, or that counteracts an alkaline tendency in the system.

Antalkaline (a.) Of power to counteract alkalies.

Antambulacral (a.) Away from the ambulacral region.

Antanaclasis (n.) A figure which consists in repeating the same word in a different sense; as, Learn some craft when young, that when old you may live without craft.

Antanaclasis (n.) A repetition of words beginning a sentence, after a long parenthesis; as, Shall that heart (which not only feels them, but which has all motions of life placed in them), shall that heart, etc.

Antanagoge (n.) A figure which consists in answering the charge of an adversary, by a counter charge.

Antaphrodisiac (a.) Capable of blunting the venereal appetite.

Antaphrodisiac (n.) Anything that quells the venereal appetite.

Antaphroditic (a.) Antaphrodisiac.

Antaphroditic (a.) Antisyphilitic.

Antaphroditic (n.) An antaphroditic medicine.

Antapoplectic (a.) Good against apoplexy.

Antapoplectic (n.) A medicine used against apoplexy.

Antarchism (n.) Opposition to government in general.

Antarchist (n.) One who opposes all government.

Antarchistic (a.) Alt. of Antarchistical

Antarchistical (a.) Opposed to all human government.

Antarctic (a.) Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to the southern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to a circle, distant from the pole 23 28/. Thus we say the antarctic pole, circle, ocean, region, current, etc.

Antares (n.) The principal star in Scorpio: -- called also the Scorpion's Heart.

Antarthritic (a.) Counteracting or alleviating gout.

Antarthritic (n.) A remedy against gout.

Antasthmatic (a.) Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.

Antasthmatic (n.) A remedy for asthma.

Ant-bear (n.) An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), living on ants. It belongs to the genus Myrmecophaga.

Ant bird () See Ant bird, under Ant, n.

Ant-cattle (n.) Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for the sake of the honeydew which they secrete. See Aphips.

Ante- () A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. 'anti`, Skr. anti, Goth. and-, anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. Answer, Along), G. ant-, ent- (in comp.). The Latin ante is generally used in the sense of before, in regard to position, order, or time, and the Gr. 'anti` in that of opposite, or in the place of.

Ante (n.) Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante) the game begins.

Ante (v. t. & i.) To put up (an ante).

Anteact (n.) A preceding act.

Anteal (a.) Being before, or in front.

Ant-eater (n.) One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feed upon ants. See Ant-bear, Pangolin, Aard-vark, and Echidna.

Antecedaneous (a.) Antecedent; preceding in time.

Antecede (v. t. & i.) To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass.

Antecedence (n.) The act or state of going before in time; precedence.

Antecedence (n.) An apparent motion of a planet toward the west; retrogradation.

Antecedency (n.) The state or condition of being antecedent; priority.

Antecedent (a.) Going before in time; prior; anterior; preceding; as, an event antecedent to the Deluge; an antecedent cause.

Antecedent (a.) Presumptive; as, an antecedent improbability.

Antecedent (n.) That which goes before in time; that which precedes.

Antecedent (n.) One who precedes or goes in front.

Antecedent (n.) The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct, course, history.

Antecedent (n.) The noun to which a relative refers; as, in the sentence Solomon was the prince who built the temple, prince is the antecedent of who.

Antecedent (n.) The first or conditional part of a hypothetical proposition; as, If the earth is fixed, the sun must move.

Antecedent (n.) The first of the two propositions which constitute an enthymeme or contracted syllogism; as, Every man is mortal; therefore the king must die.

Antecedent (n.) The first of the two terms of a ratio; the first or third of the four terms of a proportion. In the ratio a:b, a is the antecedent, and b the consequent.

Antecedently (adv.) Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as, antecedently to conversion.

Antecessor (n.) One who goes before; a predecessor.

Antecessor (n.) An ancestor; a progenitor.

Antechamber (n.) A chamber or apartment before the chief apartment and leading into it, in which persons wait for audience; an outer chamber. See Lobby.

Antechamber (n.) A space viewed as the outer chamber or the entrance to an interior part.

Antechapel (n.) The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel.

Antecians (n. pl.) See Ant/cians.

Antecommunion (n.) A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for the communion, which precedes the consecration of the elements.

Antecursor (n.) A forerunner; a precursor.

Antedate (n.) Prior date; a date antecedent to another which is the actual date.

Antedate (n.) Anticipation.

Antedated (imp. & p. p.) of Antedate

Antedating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Antedate

Antedate (v. t.) To date before the true time; to assign to an earlier date; thus, to antedate a deed or a bond is to give it a date anterior to the true time of its execution.

Antedate (v. t.) To precede in time.

Antedate (v. t.) To anticipate; to make before the true time.

Antediluvial (a.) Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time.

Antediluvian (a.) Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time; hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle.

Antediluvian (n.) One who lived before the Deluge.

Antefact (n.) Something done before another act.

Antefixes (pl. ) of Antefix

Antefixa (pl. ) of Antefix

Antefix (n.) An ornament fixed upon a frieze.

Antefix (n.) An ornament at the eaves, concealing the ends of the joint tiles of the roof.

Antefix (n.) An ornament of the cymatium of a classic cornice, sometimes pierced for the escape of water.

Anteflexion (n.) A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in such manner that its axis is bent upon itself.

Ant egg () One of the small white egg-shaped pupae or cocoons of the ant, often seen in or about ant-hills, and popularly supposed to be eggs.

Antelope (n.) One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between the deer and the goat. The horns are usually annulated, or ringed. There are many species in Africa and Asia.

Antelucan (a.) Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies of Christians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in the morning.

Antemeridian (a.) Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev. a. m.)

Antemetic (a.) Tending to check vomiting.

Antemetic (n.) A remedy to check or allay vomiting.

Antemosaic (a.) Being before the time of Moses.

Antemundane (a.) Being or occurring before the creation of the world.

Antemural (n.) An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in front of the gateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance.

Antenatal (a.) Before birth.

Antenicene (a.) Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the first council of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith.

Antennae (pl. ) of Antenna

Antenna (n.) A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to the heads of insects and Crustacea. There are two in the former, and usually four in the latter. They are used as organs of touch, and in some species of Crustacea the cavity of the ear is situated near the basal joint. In insects, they are popularly called horns, and also feelers. The term in also applied to similar organs on the heads of other arthropods and of annelids.

Antennal (a.) Belonging to the antennae.

Antenniferous (a.) Bearing or having antennae.

Antenniform (a.) Shaped like antennae.

Antennule (n.) A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennae or feelers of Crustacea.

Antenumber (n.) A number that precedes another.

Antenuptial (a.) Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement.

Anteorbital (a. & n.) Same as Antorbital.

Antepaschal (a.) Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter.

Antepast (n.) A foretaste.

Antependium (n.) The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth; the frontal.

Antepenult (n.) Alt. of Antepenultima

Antepenultima (n.) The last syllable of a word except two, as -syl- in monosyllable.

Antepenultimate (a.) Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two.

Antepenultimate (n.) The antepenult.

Antephialtic (a.) Good against nightmare.

Antephialtic (n.) A remedy nightmare.

Antepileptic (a.) Good against epilepsy.

Antepileptic (n.) A medicine for epilepsy.

Antepone (v. t.) To put before; to prefer.

Anteport (n.) An outer port, gate, or door.

Anteportico (n.) An outer porch or vestibule.

Anteposition (n.) The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules, ought to follow it.

Anteprandial (a.) Preceding dinner.

Antepredicament (n.) A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments and categories, such as definitions of common terms.

Anterior (a.) Before in time; antecedent.

Anterior (a.) Before, or toward the front, in place; as, the anterior part of the mouth; -- opposed to posterior.

Anteriority (n.) The state of being anterior or preceding in time or in situation; priority.

Anteriorly (adv.) In an anterior manner; before.

Anteroom (n.) A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waiting room.

Antero- () A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior, front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side.

Antes (n. pl.) Antae. See Anta.

Antestature (n.) A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks of earth.

Antestomach (n.) A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds.

Antetemple (n.) The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church.

Anteversion (n.) A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such manner that its whole axis is directed further forward than usual.

Antevert (v. t.) To prevent.

Antevert (v. t.) To displace by anteversion.

Anthelia (pl. ) of Anthelion

Anthelion (n.) A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or rings around the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on a cloud or on an opposite fog bank.

Anthelix (n.) Same as Antihelix.

Anthelmintic (a.) Good against intestinal worms.

Anthelmintic (n.) An anthelmintic remedy.

Anthem (n.) Formerly, a hymn sung in alternate parts, in present usage, a selection from the Psalms, or other parts of the Scriptures or the liturgy, set to sacred music.

Anthem (n.) A song or hymn of praise.

Anthem (v. t.) To celebrate with anthems.

Anthemion () A floral ornament. See Palmette

Anthemis (n.) Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants.

Anthemwise (adv.) Alternately.

Anther (n.) That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the ovary.

Antheridia (pl. ) of Antheridium

Antheridium (n.) The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of a cell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- called also spermary.

Antheriferous (a.) Producing anthers, as plants.

Antheriferous (a.) Supporting anthers, as a part of a flower.

Antheriform (a.) Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped.

Antherogenous (a.) Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower.

Antheroid (a.) Resembling an anther.

Antherozoid (n.) Alt. of Antherozooid

Antherozooid (n.) One of the mobile male reproductive bodies in the antheridia of cryptogams.

Anthesis (n.) The period or state of full expansion in a flower.

Ant-hill (n.) A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming their nests.

Anthobian (n.) A beetle which feeds on flowers.

Anthobranchia (n. pl.) A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills form a wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back. See Nudibranchiata, and Doris.

Anthocarpous (a.) Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to the pericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, and the pineapple.

Anthocyanin (n.) Same as Anthokyan.

Anthodium (n.) The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many florets are gathered into a involucrate head.

Anthography (n.) A description of flowers.

Anthoid (a.) Resembling a flower; flowerlike.

Anthokyan (n.) The blue coloring matter of certain flowers. Same as Cyanin.

Antholite (n.) A fossil plant, like a petrified flower.

Anthological (a.) Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts from different authors, especially the poets.

Anthologist (n.) One who compiles an anthology.

Anthology (n.) A discourse on flowers.

Anthology (n.) A collection of flowers; a garland.

Anthology (n.) A collection of flowers of literature, that is, beautiful passages from authors; a collection of poems or epigrams; -- particularly applied to a collection of ancient Greek epigrams.

Anthology (n.) A service book containing a selection of pieces for the festival services.

Anthomania (n.) A extravagant fondness for flowers.

Anthony's Fire () See Saint Anthony's Fire, under Saint.

Anthophagous (a.) Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects.

Anthophore (n.) The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx and corolla, as in the Pink family.

Anthophorous (a.) Flower bearing; supporting the flower.

Anthophyllite (n.) A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clove brown color.

Anthorism (n.) A description or definition contrary to that which is given by the adverse party.

Anthotaxy (n.) The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of the relative position of flowers; inflorescence.

Anthozoa (n. pl.) The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and sea anemones. The three principal groups or orders are Acyonaria, Actinaria, and Madreporaria.

Anthozoan (a.) Pertaining to the Anthozoa.

Anthozoan (n.) One of the Anthozoa.

Anthozoic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa.

Anthracene (n.) A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompanies naphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Its chief use is in the artificial production of alizarin.

Anthracic (a.) Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood.

Anthraciferous (a.) Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata.

Anthracite (n.) A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster, differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, in consequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. The purer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glance coal and blind coal.

Anthracitic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthracitic formations.

Anthracoid (a.) Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, an anthracoid microbe.

Anthracomancy (n.) Divination by inspecting a burning coal.

Anthracometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in a mixture.

Anthracometric (a.) Of or pertaining to an anthracometer.

Anthraconite (n.) A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell when rubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.

Anthraquinone (n.) A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellow needles. It is obtained by oxidation of anthracene.

Anthrax (n.) A carbuncle.

Anthrax (n.) A malignant pustule.

Anthrax (n.) A microscopic, bacterial organism (Bacillus anthracis), resembling transparent rods. [See Illust. under Bacillus.]

Anthrax (n.) An infectious disease of cattle and sheep. It is ascribed to the presence of a rod-shaped bacterium (Bacillus anthracis), the spores of which constitute the contagious matter. It may be transmitted to man by inoculation. The spleen becomes greatly enlarged and filled with bacteria. Called also splenic fever.

Anthrenus (n.) A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larval state, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common museum pest is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariae. The larvae are commonly confounded with moths.

Anthropic (a.) Alt. of Anthropical

Anthropical (a.) Like or related to man; human.

Anthropidae (n. pl.) The group that includes man only.

Anthropocentric (a.) Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied to theories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system.

Anthropogenic (a.) Of or pertaining to anthropogeny.

Anthropogeny (n.) The science or study of human generation, or the origin and development of man.

Anthropoglot (n.) An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as the parrot.

Anthropography (n.) That branch of anthropology which treats of the actual distribution of the human race in its different divisions, as distinguished by physical character, language, institutions, and customs, in contradistinction to ethnography, which treats historically of the origin and filiation of races and nations.

Anthropoid (a.) Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as the ourang or gorilla.

Anthropoid (n.) An anthropoid ape.

Anthropoidal (a.) Anthropoid.

Anthropoidea (n. pl.) The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, and man.

Anthropolatry (n.) Man worship.

Anthropolite (n.) A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.

Anthropologic (a.) Alt. of Anthropological

Anthropological (a.) Pertaining to anthropology; belonging to the nature of man.

Anthropologist (n.) One who is versed in anthropology.

Anthropology (n.) The science of the structure and functions of the human body.

Anthropology (n.) The science of man; -- sometimes used in a limited sense to mean the study of man as an object of natural history, or as an animal.

Anthropology (n.) That manner of expression by which the inspired writers attribute human parts and passions to God.

Anthropomancy (n.) Divination by the entrails of human being.

Anthropometric (a.) Alt. of Anthropometrical

Anthropometrical (a.) Pertaining to anthropometry.

Anthropometry (n.) Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings, especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations, etc.

Anthropomorpha (n. pl.) The manlike, or anthropoid, apes.

Anthropomorphic (a.) Of or pertaining to anthropomorphism.

Anthropomorphism (n.) The representation of the Deity, or of a polytheistic deity, under a human form, or with human attributes and affections.

Anthropomorphism (n.) The ascription of human characteristics to things not human.

Anthropomorphist (n.) One who attributes the human form or other human attributes to the Deity or to anything not human.

Anthropomorphite (n.) One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deity or to a polytheistic deity. Taylor. Specifically, one of a sect of ancient heretics who believed that God has a human form, etc. Tillotson.

Anthropomorphitic (a.) to anthropomorphism.

Anthropomorphitism (n.) Anthropomorphism.

Anthropomorphize (v. t. & i.) To attribute a human form or personality to.

Anthropomorphology (n.) The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.

Anthropomorphosis (n.) Transformation into the form of a human being.

Anthropomorphous (a.) Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, an anthropomorphous plant.

Anthropopathic (a.) Alt. of Anthropopathical

Anthropopathical (a.) Of or pertaining to anthropopathy.

Anthropopathism (n.) Alt. of Anthropopathy

Anthropopathy (n.) The ascription of human feelings or passions to God, or to a polytheistic deity.

Anthropophagi (n. pl.) Man eaters; cannibals.

Anthropophagic (a.) Alt. of Anthropophagical

Anthropophagical (a.) Relating to cannibalism or anthropophagy.

Anthropophaginian (n.) One who east human flesh.

Anthropophagite (n.) A cannibal.

Anthropophagous (a.) Feeding on human flesh; cannibal.

Anthropophagy (n.) The eating of human flesh; cannibalism.

Anthropophuism (n.) Human nature.

Anthroposcopy (n.) The art of discovering or judging of a man's character, passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features.

Anthroposophy (n.) Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom.

Anthropotomical (a.) Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies.

Anthropotomist (n.) One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy.

Anthropotomy (n.) The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy.

Anthypnotic () See Antihypnotic.

Anthypochondriac (a. & n.) See Antihypochondriac.

Anthysteric (a. & n.) See Antihysteric.

Anti () A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or in place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It is often shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic.

Antiae (n. pl.) The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some birds; the frontal points.

Antialbumid (n.) A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion. It is convertible into antipeptone.

Antialbumose (n.) See Albumose.

Anti-American (a.) Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to the genius of American institutions.

Antiaphrodisiac (a. & n.) Same as Antaphrodisiac.

Antiapoplectic (a. & n.) Same as Antapoplectic.

Antiar (n.) A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria).

Antiarin (n.) A poisonous principle obtained from antiar.

Antiasthmatic (a. & n.) Same as Antasthmatic.

Antiattrition (n.) Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compound lubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, with some greasy material; antifriction grease.

Antibacchius (n.) A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the last short (#).

Antibillous (a.) Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relieve biliousness.

Antibrachial (a.) Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm.

Antibrachium (n.) That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus; the forearm.

Antibromic (n.) An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer.

Antiburgher (n.) One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improper to take the Burgess oath.

Antic (a.) Old; antique.

Antic (a.)

Antic (a.) Odd; fantastic; fanciful; grotesque; ludicrous.

Antic (n.) A buffoon or merry-andrew; one that practices odd gesticulations; the Fool of the old play.

Antic (n.) An odd imagery, device, or tracery; a fantastic figure.

Antic (n.) A grotesque trick; a piece of buffoonery; a caper.

Antic (n.) A grotesque representation.

Antic (n.) An antimask.

Anticked (imp. & p. p.) of Antic

Antickt () of Antic

Antic (v. t.) To make appear like a buffoon.

Antic (v. i.) To perform antics.

Anticatarrhal (a.) Efficacious against catarrh.

Anticatarrhal (n.) An anticatarrhal remedy.

Anticathode (n.) The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it the cathode rays impinge.

Anticausodic (a. & n.) Same as Anticausotic.

Anticausotic (a.) Good against an inflammatory fever.

Anticausotic (n.) A remedy for such a fever.

Antichamber (n.) See Antechamber.

Antichlor (n.) Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used in removing the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs after bleaching.

Antichrist (n.) A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.: A great antagonist, person or power, expected to precede Christ's second coming.

Antichristian (a.) Opposed to the Christian religion.

Antichristianism (n.) Alt. of Antichristianity

Antichristianity (n.) Opposition or contrariety to the Christian religion.

Antichristianly (adv.) In an antichristian manner.

Antichronical (a.) Deviating from the proper order of time.

Antichronism (n.) Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism.

Antichthones (pl. ) of Antichthon

Antichthon (n.) A hypothetical earth counter to ours, or on the opposite side of the sun.

Antichthon (n.) Inhabitants of opposite hemispheres.

Anticipant (a.) Anticipating; expectant; -- with of.

Anticipated (imp. & p. p.) of Anticipate

Anticipating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anticipate

Anticipate (v. t.) To be before in doing; to do or take before another; to preclude or prevent by prior action.

Anticipate (v. t.) To take up or introduce beforehand, or before the proper or normal time; to cause to occur earlier or prematurely; as, the advocate has anticipated a part of his argument.

Anticipate (v. t.) To foresee (a wish, command, etc.) and do beforehand that which will be desired.

Anticipate (v. t.) To foretaste or foresee; to have a previous view or impression of; as, to anticipate the pleasures of a visit; to anticipate the evils of life.

Anticipation (n.) The act of anticipating, taking up, placing, or considering something beforehand, or before the proper time in natural order.

Anticipation (n.) Previous view or impression of what is to happen; instinctive prevision; foretaste; antepast; as, the anticipation of the joys of heaven.

Anticipation (n.) Hasty notion; intuitive preconception.

Anticipation (n.) The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or during the chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.

Anticipative (a.) Anticipating, or containing anticipation.

Anticipator (n.) One who anticipates.

Anticipatory (a.) Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation.

Anticivic (n.) Opposed to citizenship.

Anticivism (n.) Opposition to the body politic of citizens.

Anticlastic (a.) Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinally in one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as the surface of a saddle.

Anticlimax (n.) A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less important and striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces a ridiculous effect.

Anticlinal (a.) Inclining or dipping in opposite directions. See Synclinal.

Anticlinal (n.) The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in opposite directions.

Anticlinoria (pl. ) of Anticlinorium

Anticlinorium (n.) The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting from a geanticlinal.

Anticly (adv.) Oddly; grotesquely.

Antic-mask (n.) An antimask.

Anticness (n.) The quality of being antic.

Anticonstitutional (a.) Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.

Anticontagious (a.) Opposing or destroying contagion.

Anticonvulsive (a.) Good against convulsions.

Anticor (n.) A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, just opposite the heart.

Anticous (a.) Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrse anthers of the water lily.

Anticyclone (n.) A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regards direction of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, to that of a cyclone.

Antidotal (a.) Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract the effects of poison.

Antidotary (a.) Antidotal.

Antidote (n.) A remedy to counteract the effects of poison, or of anything noxious taken into the stomach; -- used with against, for, or to; as, an antidote against, for, or to, poison.

Antidote (n.) Whatever tends to prevent mischievous effects, or to counteract evil which something else might produce.

Antidote (v. t.) To counteract or prevent the effects of, by giving or taking an antidote.

Antidote (v. t.) To fortify or preserve by an antidote.

Antidotical (a.) Serving as an antidote.

Antidromous (a.) Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on a stem.

Antidysenteric (a.) Good against dysentery.

Antidysenteric (n.) A medicine for dysentery.

Antiemetic (a. / n.) Same as Antemetic.

Antiephialtic (a. & n.) Same as Antephialtic.

Antiepileptic (a. & n.) Same as Antepileptic.

Antifebrile (a. & n.) Febrifuge.

Antifebrine (n.) Acetanilide.

Anti-federalist (n.) One of party opposed to a federative government; -- applied particularly to the party which opposed the adoption of the constitution of the United States.

Antifriction (n.) Something to lessen friction; antiattrition.

Antifriction (a.) Tending to lessen friction.

Antigalastic (a.) Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.

Anti-Gallican (a.) Opposed to what is Gallic or French.

Antigraph (n.) A copy or transcript.

Antiguggler (n.) A crooked tube of metal, to be introduced into the neck of a bottle for drawing out the liquid without disturbing the sediment or causing a gurgling noise.

Antihelix (n.) The curved elevation of the cartilage of the ear, within or in front of the helix. See Ear.

Antihemorrhagic (a.) Tending to stop hemorrhage.

Antihemorrhagic (n.) A remedy for hemorrhage.

Antihydrophobic (a.) Counteracting or preventing hydrophobia.

Antihydrophobic (n.) A remedy for hydrophobia.

Antihydropic (a.) Good against dropsy.

Antihydropic (n.) A remedy for dropsy.

Antihypnotic (a.) Tending to prevent sleep.

Antihypnotic (n.) An antihypnotic agent.

Antihypochondriac (a.) Counteractive of hypochondria.

Antihypochondriac (n.) A remedy for hypochondria.

Antihysteric (a.) Counteracting hysteria.

Antihysteric (n.) A remedy for hysteria.

Antiicteric (a.) Good against jaundice.

Antiicteric (n.) A remedy for jaundice.

Antilegomena (n. pl.) Certain books of the New Testament which were for a time not universally received, but which are now considered canonical. These are the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistles of James and Jude, the second Epistle of Peter, the second and third Epistles of John, and the Revelation. The undisputed books are called the Homologoumena.

Antilibration (n.) A balancing; equipoise.

Antilithic (a.) Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or to destroy them when formed.

Antilithic (n.) An antilithic medicine.

Antilogarithm (n.) The number corresponding to a logarithm. The word has been sometimes, though rarely, used to denote the complement of a given logarithm; also the logarithmic cosine corresponding to a given logarithmic sine.

Antilogous (a.) Of the contrary name or character; -- opposed to analogous.

Antilogies (pl. ) of Antilogy

Antilogy (n.) A contradiction between any words or passages in an author.

Antiloimic (n.) A remedy against the plague.

Antilopine (a.) Of or relating to the antelope.

Antiloquist (n.) A contradicter.

Antiloquy (n.) Contradiction.

Antilyssic (a. & n.) Antihydrophobic.

Antimacassar (n.) A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., to prevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from the hair.

Antimagistrical (a.) Opposed to the office or authority of magistrates.

Antimalarial (a.) Good against malaria.

Antimask (n.) A secondary mask, or grotesque interlude, between the parts of a serious mask.

Antimason (n.) One opposed to Freemasonry.

Antimasonry (n.) Opposition to Freemasonry.

Antimephitic (a.) Good against mephitic or deleterious gases.

Antimephitic (n.) A remedy against mephitic gases.

Antimere (n.) One of the two halves of bilaterally symmetrical animals; one of any opposite symmetrical or homotypic parts in animals and plants.

Antimetabole (n.) A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated in transposed order.

Antimetathesis (n.) An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverse order.

Antimeter (n.) A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.

Antimonarchic () Alt. of Antimonarchical

Antimonarchical () Opposed to monarchial government.

Antimonarchist (n.) An enemy to monarchial government.

Antimonate (n.) A compound of antimonic acid with a base or basic radical.

Antimonial (a.) Of or pertaining to antimony.

Antimonial (n.) A preparation or medicine containing antimony.

Antimoniated (a.) Combined or prepared with antimony; as, antimoniated tartar.

Antimonic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those compounds of antimony in which this element has its highest equivalence; as, antimonic acid.

Antimonious (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those compounds of antimony in which this element has an equivalence next lower than the highest; as, antimonious acid.

Antimonite (n.) A compound of antimonious acid and a base or basic radical.

Antimonite (n.) Stibnite.

Antimoniureted (a.) Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniureted hydrogen.

Antimony (n.) An elementary substance, resembling a metal in its appearance and physical properties, but in its chemical relations belonging to the class of nonmetallic substances. Atomic weight, 120. Symbol, Sb.

Antinational (a.) Antagonistic to one's country or nation, or to a national government.

Antinephritic (a.) Counteracting, or deemed of use in, diseases of the kidneys.

Antinephritic (n.) An antinephritic remedy.

Antinomian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Antinomians; opposed to the doctrine that the moral law is obligatory.

Antinomian (n.) One who maintains that, under the gospel dispensation, the moral law is of no use or obligation, but that faith alone is necessary to salvation. The sect of Antinomians originated with John Agricola, in Germany, about the year 1535.

Antinomianism (n.) The tenets or practice of Antinomians.

Antinomist (n.) An Antinomian.

Antinomies (pl. ) of Antinomy

Antinomy (n.) Opposition of one law or rule to another law or rule.

Antinomy (n.) An opposing law or rule of any kind.

Antinomy (n.) A contradiction or incompatibility of thought or language; -- in the Kantian philosophy, such a contradiction as arises from the attempt to apply to the ideas of the reason, relations or attributes which are appropriate only to the facts or the concepts of experience.

Antiochian (a.) Pertaining to Antiochus, a contemporary with Cicero, and the founder of a sect of philosophers.

Antiochian (a.) Of or pertaining to the city of Antioch, in Syria.

Antiodontalgic (a.) Efficacious in curing toothache.

Antiodontalgic (n.) A remedy for toothache.

Antiorgastic (a.) Tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative.

Antipapal (a.) Opposed to the pope or to popery.

Antiparallel (a.) Running in a contrary direction.

Antiparallels (n. pl.) Straight lines or planes which make angles in some respect opposite in character to those made by parallel lines or planes.

Antiparalytic (a.) Good against paralysis.

Antiparalytic (n.) A medicine for paralysis.

Antiparalytical (a.) Antiparalytic.

Antipathetic (a.) Alt. of Antipathetical

Antipathetical (a.) Having a natural contrariety, or constitutional aversion, to a thing; characterized by antipathy; -- often followed by to.

Antipathic (a.) Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.

Antipathist (n.) One who has an antipathy.

Antipathize (v. i.) To feel or show antipathy.

Antipathous (a.) Having a natural contrariety; adverse; antipathetic.

Antipathies (pl. ) of Antipathy

Antipathy (n.) Contrariety or opposition in feeling; settled aversion or dislike; repugnance; distaste.

Antipathy (n.) Natural contrariety; incompatibility; repugnancy of qualities; as, oil and water have antipathy.

Antipeptone (n.) A product of gastric and pancreatic digestion, differing from hemipeptone in not being decomposed by the continued action of pancreatic juice.

Antiperiodic (n.) A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return of periodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittent fevers.

Antiperistaltic (a.) Opposed to, or checking motion; acting upward; -- applied to an inverted action of the intestinal tube.

Antiperistasis (n.) Opposition by which the quality opposed asquires strength; resistance or reaction roused by opposition or by the action of an opposite principle or quality.

Antiperistatic (a.) Pertaining to antiperistasis.

Antipetalous (a.) Standing before a petal, as a stamen.

Antipharmic (a.) Antidotal; alexipharmic.

Antiphlogistian (n.) An opposer of the theory of phlogiston.

Antiphlogistic (a.) Opposed to the doctrine of phlogiston.

Antiphlogistic (a.) Counteracting inflammation.

Antiphlogistic (n.) Any medicine or diet which tends to check inflammation.

Antiphon (n.) A musical response; alternate singing or chanting. See Antiphony, and Antiphone.

Antiphon (n.) A verse said before and after the psalms.

Antiphonal (a.) Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sung alternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs.

Antiphonal (n.) A book of antiphons or anthems.

Antiphonary (n.) A book containing a collection of antiphons; the book in which the antiphons of the breviary, with their musical notes, are contained.

Antiphone (n.) The response which one side of the choir makes to the other in a chant; alternate chanting or signing.

Antiphoner (n.) A book of antiphons.

Antiphonic (a.) Antiphonal.

Antiphonies (pl. ) of Antiphony

Antiphony (n.) A musical response; also, antiphonal chanting or signing.

Antiphony (n.) An anthem or psalm sung alternately by a choir or congregation divided into two parts. Also figuratively.

Antiphrasis (n.) The use of words in a sense opposite to their proper meaning; as when a court of justice is called a court of vengeance.

Antiphrastic (a.) Alt. of Antiphrastical

Antiphrastical (a.) Pertaining to antiphrasis.

Antiphthisic (a.) Relieving or curing phthisis, or consumption.

Antiphthisic (n.) A medicine for phthisis.

Antiphysical (a.) Contrary to nature; unnatural.

Antiphysical (a.) Relieving flatulence; carminative.

Antiplastic (a.) Diminishing plasticity.

Antiplastic (a.) Preventing or checking the process of healing, or granulation.

Antipodagric (a.) Good against gout.

Antipodagric (n.) A medicine for gout.

Antipodal (a.) Pertaining to the antipodes; situated on the opposite side of the globe.

Antipodal (a.) Diametrically opposite.

Antipode (n.) One of the antipodes; anything exactly opposite.

Antipodean (a.) Pertaining to the antipodes, or the opposite side of the world; antipodal.

Antipodes (n.) Those who live on the side of the globe diametrically opposite.

Antipodes (n.) The country of those who live on the opposite side of the globe.

Antipodes (n.) Anything exactly opposite or contrary.

Antipole (n.) The opposite pole; anything diametrically opposed.

Antipope (n.) One who is elected, or claims to be, pope in opposition to the pope canonically chosen; esp. applied to those popes who resided at Avignon during the Great Schism.

Antipsoric (a.) Of use in curing the itch.

Antipsoric (n.) An antipsoric remedy.

Antiptosis (n.) The putting of one case for another.

Antiputrefactive (a.) Alt. of Antiputrescent

Antiputrescent (a.) Counteracting, or preserving from, putrefaction; antiseptic.

Antipyic (a.) Checking or preventing suppuration.

Antipyic (n.) An antipyic medicine.

Antipyresis (n.) The condition or state of being free from fever.

Antipyretic (a.) Efficacious in preventing or allaying fever.

Antipyretic (n.) A febrifuge.

Antipyrine (n.) An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abating fever.

Antipyrotic (a.) Good against burns or pyrosis.

Antipyrotic (n.) Anything of use in preventing or healing burns or pyrosis.

Antiquarian (a.) Pertaining to antiquaries, or to antiquity; as, antiquarian literature.

Antiquarian (n.) An antiquary.

Antiquarian (n.) A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n.

Antiquarianism (n.) Character of an antiquary; study or love of antiquities.

Antiquarianize (v. i.) To act the part of an antiquary.

Antiquary (a.) Pertaining to antiquity.

Antiquaries (pl. ) of Antiquary

Antiquary (n.) One devoted to the study of ancient times through their relics, as inscriptions, monuments, remains of ancient habitations, statues, coins, manuscripts, etc.; one who searches for and studies the relics of antiquity.

Antiquate (v. t.) To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in such a degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate.

Antiquated (a.) Grown old. Hence: Bygone; obsolete; out of use; old-fashioned; as, an antiquated law.

Antiquatedness (n.) Quality of being antiquated.

Antiquateness (n.) Antiquatedness.

Antiquation (n.) The act of making antiquated, or the state of being antiquated.

Antique (a.) Old; ancient; of genuine antiquity; as, an antique statue. In this sense it usually refers to the flourishing ages of Greece and Rome.

Antique (a.) Old, as respects the present age, or a modern period of time; of old fashion; antiquated; as, an antique robe.

Antique (a.) Made in imitation of antiquity; as, the antique style of Thomson's Castle of Indolence.

Antique (a.) Odd; fantastic.

Antique (a.) In general, anything very old; but in a more limited sense, a relic or object of ancient art; collectively, the antique, the remains of ancient art, as busts, statues, paintings, and vases.

Antiquely (adv.) In an antique manner.

Antiqueness (n.) The quality of being antique; an appearance of ancient origin and workmanship.

Antiquist (n.) An antiquary; a collector of antiques.

Antiquitarian (n.) An admirer of antiquity. [Used by Milton in a disparaging sense.]

Antiquities (pl. ) of Antiquity

Antiquity (n.) The quality of being ancient; ancientness; great age; as, a statue of remarkable antiquity; a family of great antiquity.

Antiquity (n.) Old age.

Antiquity (n.) Ancient times; former ages; times long since past; as, Cicero was an eloquent orator of antiquity.

Antiquity (n.) The ancients; the people of ancient times.

Antiquity (n.) An old gentleman.

Antiquity (n.) A relic or monument of ancient times; as, a coin, a statue, etc.; an ancient institution. [In this sense, usually in the plural.]

Antirachitic (a.) Good against the rickets.

Antirenter (n.) One opposed to the payment of rent; esp. one of those who in 1840-47 resisted the collection of rents claimed by the patroons from the settlers on certain manorial lands in the State of New York.

Antisabbatarian (n.) One of a sect which opposes the observance of the Christian Sabbath.

Antisacerdotal (a.) Hostile to priests or the priesthood.

Antiscians (n. pl.) Alt. of Antiscii

Antiscii (n. pl.) The inhabitants of the earth, living on different sides of the equator, whose shadows at noon are cast in opposite directions.

Antiscoletic (a.) Alt. of Antiscolic

Antiscolic (a.) Anthelmintic.

Antiscorbutic (a.) Counteracting scurvy.

Antiscorbutic (n.) A remedy for scurvy.

Antiscorbutical (a.) Antiscorbutic.

Antiscriptural (a.) Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.

Antisepalous (a.) Standing before a sepal, or calyx leaf.

Antiseptic (a.) Alt. of Antiseptical

Antiseptical (a.) Counteracting or preventing putrefaction, or a putrescent tendency in the system; antiputrefactive.

Antiseptic (n.) A substance which prevents or retards putrefaction, or destroys, or protects from, putrefactive organisms; as, salt, carbolic acid, alcohol, cinchona.

Antiseptically (adv.) By means of antiseptics.

Antislavery (a.) Opposed to slavery.

Antislavery (n.) Opposition to slavery.

Antisocial (a.) Tending to interrupt or destroy social intercourse; averse to society, or hostile to its existence; as, antisocial principles.

Antisocialist (n.) One opposed to the doctrines and practices of socialists or socialism.

Antisolar (a.) Opposite to the sun; -- said of the point in the heavens 180 distant from the sun.

Antispasmodic (a.) Good against spasms.

Antispasmodic (n.) A medicine which prevents or allays spasms or convulsions.

Antispast (n.) A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and the second and third long (#).

Antispastic (a.) Believed to cause a revulsion of fluids or of humors from one part to another.

Antispastic (a.) Counteracting spasms; antispasmodic.

Antispastic (n.) An antispastic agent.

Antisplenetic (a.) Good as a remedy against disease of the spleen.

Antisplenetic (n.) An antisplenetic medicine.

Antistrophe (n.) In Greek choruses and dances, the returning of the chorus, exactly answering to a previous strophe or movement from right to left. Hence: The lines of this part of the choral song.

Antistrophe (n.) The repetition of words in an inverse order; as, the master of the servant and the servant of the master.

Antistrophe (n.) The retort or turning of an adversary's plea against him.

Antistrophic (a.) Of or pertaining to an antistrophe.

Antistrophon (n.) An argument retorted on an opponent.

Antistrumatic (a.) Antistrumous.

Antistrumatic (n.) A medicine for scrofula.

Antistrumous (a.) Good against scrofulous disorders.

Antisyphilitic (a.) Efficacious against syphilis.

Antisyphilitic (n.) A medicine for syphilis.

Antitheism (n.) The doctrine of antitheists.

Antitheist (n.) A disbeliever in the existence of God.

Antitheses (pl. ) of Antithesis

Antithesis (n.) An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring in the same sentence; as, The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robs himself. He had covertly shot at Cromwell; he how openly aimed at the Queen.

Antithesis (n.) The second of two clauses forming an antithesis.

Antithesis (n.) Opposition; contrast.

Antithet (n.) An antithetic or contrasted statement.

Antithetic (a.) Alt. of Antithetical

Antithetical (a.) Pertaining to antithesis, or opposition of words and sentiments; containing, or of the nature of, antithesis; contrasted.

Antithetically (adv.) By way antithesis.

Antitoxin (n.) Alt. of Antitoxine

Antitoxine (n.) A substance (sometimes the product of a specific micro-organism and sometimes naturally present in the blood or tissues of an animal), capable of producing immunity from certain diseases, or of counteracting the poisonous effects of pathogenic bacteria.

Anti-trade (n.) A tropical wind blowing steadily in a direction opposite to the trade wind.

Antitragus (n.) A prominence on the lower posterior portion of the concha of the external ear, opposite the tragus. See Ear.

Antitrochanter (n.) An articular surface on the ilium of birds against which the great trochanter of the femur plays.

Antitropal (a.) Alt. of Antitropous

Antitropous (a.) At the extremity most remote from the hilum, as the embryo, or inverted with respect to the seed, as the radicle.

Antitypal (a.) Antitypical.

Antitype (n.) That of which the type is the pattern or representation; that which is represented by the type or symbol.

Antitypical (a.) Of or pertaining to an antitype; explaining the type.

Antitypous (a.) Resisting blows; hard.

Antitypy (n.) Opposition or resistance of matter to force.

Antivaccination (n.) Opposition to vaccination.

Antivaccinationist (n.) An antivaccinist.

Antivaccinist (n.) One opposed to vaccination.

Antivariolous (a.) Preventing the contagion of smallpox.

Antivenereal (a.) Good against venereal poison; antisyphilitic.

Antivivisection (n.) Opposition to vivisection.

Antivivisectionist (n.) One opposed to vivisection

Antizymic (a.) Preventing fermentation.

Antizymotic (a.) Preventing fermentation or decomposition.

Antizymotic (n.) An agent so used.

Antler (n.) The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervine animal, as of a stag.

Antlered (a.) Furnished with antlers.

Antilae (pl. ) of Antlia

Antlia (n.) The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. See Lepidoptera.

Ant-lion (n.) A neuropterous insect, the larva of which makes in the sand a pitfall to capture ants, etc. The common American species is Myrmeleon obsoletus, the European is M. formicarius.

Antoeci (n. pl) Alt. of Antoecians

Antoecians (n. pl) Those who live under the same meridian, but on opposite parallels of latitude, north and south of the equator.

Antonomasia (n.) The use of some epithet or the name of some office, dignity, or the like, instead of the proper name of the person; as when his majesty is used for a king, or when, instead of Aristotle, we say, the philosopher; or, conversely, the use of a proper name instead of an appellative, as when a wise man is called a Solomon, or an eminent orator a Cicero.

Antonomastic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia.

Antonomasy (n.) Antonomasia.

Antonym (n.) A word of opposite meaning; a counterterm; -- used as a correlative of synonym.

Antorbital (a.) Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of the orbit.

Antorbital (n.) The antorbital bone.

Antorgastic (a.) See Antiorgastic.

Antozone (n.) A compound formerly supposed to be modification of oxygen, but now known to be hydrogen dioxide; -- so called because apparently antagonistic to ozone, converting it into ordinary oxygen.

Antral (a.) Relating to an antrum.

Antre (n.) A cavern.

Antrorse (a.) Forward or upward in direction.

Antrovert (v. t.) To bend forward.

Antra (pl. ) of Antrum

Antrum (n.) A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus

Antrustion (n.) A vassal or voluntary follower of Frankish princes in their enterprises

Ant thrush () One of several species of tropical birds, of the Old World, of the genus Pitta, somewhat resembling the thrushes, and feeding chiefly on ants.

Ant thrush () See Ant bird, under Ant.

Anubis (n.) An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits, represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox.

Anura (n. pl.) One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of a tail, as the frogs and toads.

Anurous (a.) Destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads.

Anury (n.) Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury.

Anus (n.) The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through which the excrements are expelled.

Anvil (n.) An iron block, usually with a steel face, upon which metals are hammered and shaped.

Anvil (n.) Anything resembling an anvil in shape or use.

Anvil (n.) the incus. See Incus.

Anvil (v. t.) To form or shape on an anvil; to hammer out; as, anviled armor.

Anxietude (n.) The state of being anxious; anxiety.

Anxieties (pl. ) of Anxiety

Anxiety (n.) Concern or solicitude respecting some thing or event, future or uncertain, which disturbs the mind, and keeps it in a state of painful uneasiness.

Anxiety (n.) Eager desire.

Anxiety (n.) A state of restlessness and agitation, often with general indisposition and a distressing sense of oppression at the epigastrium.

Anxious (a.) Full of anxiety or disquietude; greatly concerned or solicitous, esp. respecting something future or unknown; being in painful suspense; -- applied to persons; as, anxious for the issue of a battle.

Anxious (a.) Accompanied with, or causing, anxiety; worrying; -- applied to things; as, anxious labor.

Anxious (a.) Earnestly desirous; as, anxious to please.

Anxiously (adv.) In an anxious manner; with painful uncertainty; solicitously.

Anxiousness (n.) The quality of being anxious; great solicitude; anxiety.

Any (a. & pron.) One indifferently, out of an indefinite number; one indefinitely, whosoever or whatsoever it may be.

Any (a. & pron.) Some, of whatever kind, quantity, or number; as, are there any witnesses present? are there any other houses like it?

Any (adv.) To any extent; in any degree; at all.

Anybody (n.) Any one out of an indefinite number of persons; anyone; any person.

Anybody (n.) A person of consideration or standing.

Anyhow (adv.) In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.

Anyone (n.) One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody. [Commonly written as two words.]

Anything (n.) Any object, act, state, event, or fact whatever; thing of any kind; something or other; aught; as, I would not do it for anything.

Anything (n.) Expressing an indefinite comparison; -- with as or like.

Anything (adv.) In any measure; anywise; at all.

Anythingarian (n.) One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.

Anyway (adv.) Alt. of Anyways

Anyways (adv.) Anywise; at all.

Anywhere (adv.) In any place.

Anywhither (adv.) To or towards any place.

Anywise (adv.) In any wise or way; at all.

Aonian (a.) Pertaining to Aonia, in B/otia, or to the Muses, who were supposed to dwell there.

Aorist (n.) A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action as completed in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, wholly indeterminate.

Aoristic (a.) Indefinite; pertaining to the aorist tense.

Aorta (n.) The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to all parts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterial system.

Aortic (a.) Of or pertaining to the aorta.

Aortitis (n.) Inflammation of the aorta.

Aoudad (n.) An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus) having a long mane on the breast and fore legs. It is, perhaps, the chamois of the Old Testament.

Apace (adv.) With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily.

Apaches (n. pl.) A group of nomadic North American Indians including several tribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc.

Apagoge (n.) An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing the impossibility or absurdity of the contrary.

Apagogic (a.) Alt. of Apagogical

Apagogical (a.) Proving indirectly, by showing the absurdity, or impossibility of the contrary.

Apaid (a.) Paid; pleased.

Apair (v. t. & i.) To impair or become impaired; to injure.

Apalachian (a.) See Appalachian.

Apanage (n.) Same as Appanage.

Apanthropy (n.) An aversion to the company of men; a love of solitude.

Apar (n.) Alt. of Apara

Apara (n.) See Mataco.

Aparejo (n.) A kind of pack saddle used in the American military service and among the Spanish Americans. It is made of leather stuffed with hay, moss, or the like.

Aparithmesis (n.) Enumeration of parts or particulars.

Apart (adv.) Separately, in regard to space or company; in a state of separation as to place; aside.

Apart (adv.) In a state of separation, of exclusion, or of distinction, as to purpose, use, or character, or as a matter of thought; separately; independently; as, consider the two propositions apart.

Apart (adv.) Aside; away.

Apart (adv.) In two or more parts; asunder; to piece; as, to take a piece of machinery apart.

Apartment (n.) A room in a building; a division in a house, separated from others by partitions.

Apartment (n.) A set or suite of rooms.

Apartment (n.) A compartment.

Apartness (n.) The quality of standing apart.

Apastron (n.) That point in the orbit of a double star where the smaller star is farthest from its primary.

Apathetic (a.) Alt. of Apathetical

Apathetical (a.) Void of feeling; not susceptible of deep emotion; passionless; indifferent.

Apathetically (adv.) In an apathetic manner.

Apathist (n.) One who is destitute of feeling.

Apathistical (a.) Apathetic; une motional.

Apathies (pl. ) of Apathy

Apathy (n.) Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement; dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied to the mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference, incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertion by pleasure, pain, or passion.

Apatite (n.) Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sided prisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent.

Apaume (n.) See Appaume.

Ape (n.) A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadae, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheek pouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates, and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. The higher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often called anthropoid apes or man apes.

Ape (n.) One who imitates servilely (in allusion to the manners of the ape); a mimic.

Ape (n.) A dupe.

Aped (imp. & p. p.) of Ape

Aping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ape

Ape (v. t.) To mimic, as an ape imitates human actions; to imitate or follow servilely or irrationally.

Apeak (adv. & a.) In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable has been sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship is them said to be hove apeak.

Apehood (n.) The state of being an ape.

Apellous (a.) Destitute of skin.

Apennine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Apennines, a chain of mountains extending through Italy.

Apepsy (n.) Defective digestion, indigestion.

Aper (n.) One who apes.

Aperea (n.) The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea).

Aperient (a.) Gently opening the bowels; laxative.

Aperient (n.) An aperient medicine or food.

Aperitive (a.) Serving to open; aperient.

Apert (a.) Open; evident; undisguised.

Apert (adv.) Openly.

Apertion (n.) The act of opening; an opening; an aperture.

Apertly (adv.) Openly; clearly.

Apertness (n.) Openness; frankness.

Aperture (n.) The act of opening.

Aperture (n.) An opening; an open space; a gap, cleft, or chasm; a passage perforated; a hole; as, an aperture in a wall.

Aperture (n.) The diameter of the exposed part of the object glass of a telescope or other optical instrument; as, a telescope of four-inch aperture.

Aperies (pl. ) of Apery

Apery (n.) A place where apes are kept.

Apery (n.) The practice of aping; an apish action.

Apetalous (a.) Having no petals, or flower leaves. [See Illust. under Anther].

Apetalousness (n.) The state of being apetalous.

Apexes (pl. ) of Apex

Apices (pl. ) of Apex

Apex (n.) The tip, top, point, or angular summit of anything; as, the apex of a mountain, spire, or cone; the apex, or tip, of a leaf.

Apex (n.) The end or edge of a vein nearest the surface.

Aphaeresis (n.) Same as Apheresis.

Aphakia (n.) An anomalous state of refraction caused by the absence of the crystalline lens, as after operations for cataract. The remedy is the use of powerful convex lenses.

Aphakial (a.) Pertaining to aphakia; as, aphakial eyes.

Aphaniptera (n. pl.) A group of wingless insects, of which the flea in the type. See Flea.

Aphanipterous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera.

Aphanite (n.) A very compact, dark-colored /ock, consisting of hornblende, or pyroxene, and feldspar, but neither of them in perceptible grains.

Aphanitic (a.) Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.

Aphasia (n.) Alt. of Aphasy

Aphasy (n.) Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being preserved. It is dependent on injury or disease of the brain.

Aphasic (a.) Pertaining to, or affected by, aphasia; speechless.

Aphelia (pl. ) of Aphelion

Aphelion (n.) That point of a planet's or comet's orbit which is most distant from the sun, the opposite point being the perihelion.

Apheliotropic (a.) Turning away from the sun; -- said of leaves, etc.

Apheliotropism (n.) The habit of bending from the sunlight; -- said of certain plants.

Aphemia (n.) Loss of the power of speaking, while retaining the power of writing; -- a disorder of cerebral origin.

Apheresis (n.) The dropping of a letter or syllable from the beginning of a word; e. g., cute for acute.

Apheresis (n.) An operation by which any part is separated from the rest.

Aphesis (n.) The loss of a short unaccented vowel at the beginning of a word; -- the result of a phonetic process; as, squire for esquire.

Aphetic (a.) Shortened by dropping a letter or a syllable from the beginning of a word; as, an aphetic word or form.

Aphetism (n.) An aphetized form of a word.

Aphetize (v. t.) To shorten by aphesis.

Aphid (n.) One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.

Aphides (n. pl.) See Aphis.

Aphidian (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Aphidae.

Aphidian (n.) One of the aphides; an aphid.

Aphidivorous () Devouring aphides; aphidophagous.

Aphidophagous (a.) Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of the family Coccinellidae.

Aphilanthropy (n.) Want of love to mankind; -- the opposite of philanthropy.

Aphides (pl. ) of Aphis

Aphis (n.) A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family Aphidae, including numerous species known as plant lice and green flies.

Aphis lion () The larva of the lacewinged flies (Chrysopa), which feeds voraciously upon aphids. The name is also applied to the larvae of the ladybugs (Coccinella).

Aphlogistic (a.) Flameless; as, an aphlogistic lamp, in which a coil of wire is kept in a state of continued ignition by alcohol, without flame.

Aphonia (n.) Alt. of Aphony

Aphony (n.) Loss of voice or vocal utterance.

Aphonic (a.) Alt. of Aphonous

Aphonous (a.) Without voice; voiceless; nonvocal.

Aphorism (n.) A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; a sharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than to practical matters.

Aphorismatic (a.) Alt. of Aphorismic

Aphorismic (a.) Pertaining to aphorisms, or having the form of an aphorism.

Aphorismer (n.) A dealer in aphorisms.

Aphorist (n.) A writer or utterer of aphorisms.

Aphoristic (a.) Alt. of Aphoristical

Aphoristical (a.) In the form of, or of the nature of, an aphorism; in the form of short, unconnected sentences; as, an aphoristic style.

Aphoristically (adv.) In the form or manner of aphorisms; pithily.

Aphorize (v. i.) To make aphorisms.

Aphrite (n.) See under Calcite.

Aphrodisiac (a.) Alt. of Aphrodisiacal

Aphrodisiacal (a.) Exciting venereal desire; provocative to venery.

Aphrodisiac (n.) That which (as a drug, or some kinds of food) excites to venery.

Aphrodisian (a.) Pertaining to Aphrodite or Venus. Aphrodisian dames [that is, courtesans].

Aphrodite (n.) The Greek goddess of love, corresponding to the Venus of the Romans.

Aphrodite (n.) A large marine annelid, covered with long, lustrous, golden, hairlike setae; the sea mouse.

Aphrodite (n.) A beautiful butterfly (Argunnis Aphrodite) of the United States.

Aphroditic (a.) Venereal.

Aphtha (n.) One of the whitish specks called aphthae.

Aphtha (n.) The disease, also called thrush.

Aphthae (n. pl.) Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on the lips, etc., terminating in white sloughs. They are commonly characteristic of thrush.

Aphthoid (a.) Of the nature of aphthae; resembling thrush.

Aphthong (n.) A letter, or a combination of letters, employed in spelling a word, but in the pronunciation having no sound.

Aphthous (a.) Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthae; characterized by aphtae; as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever.

Aphyllous (a.) Destitute of leaves, as the broom rape, certain euphorbiaceous plants, etc.

Apiaceous (a.) Umbelliferous.

Apian (a.) Belonging to bees.

Apiarian (a.) Of or relating to bees.

Apiarist (n.) One who keeps an apiary.

Apiary (n.) A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a beehouse.

Apical (a.) At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit.

Apices (n. pl.) See Apex.

Apician (a.) Belonging to Apicius, a notorious Roman epicure; hence applied to whatever is peculiarly refined or dainty and expensive in cookery.

Apicular (a.) Situated at, or near, the apex; apical.

Apiculate (a.) Alt. of Apiculated

Apiculated (a.) Terminated abruptly by a small, distinct point, as a leaf.

Apiculture (n.) Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.

Apiece (adv.) Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share of each; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece.

Apieces (adv.) In pieces or to pieces.

Apiked (a.) Trimmed.

Apiol (n.) An oily liquid derived from parsley.

Apiologist (n.) A student of bees.

Apis (n.) A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including the common honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. See Honeybee.

Apish (a.) Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servile manner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected; trifling.

Apishly (adv.) In an apish manner; with servile imitation; foppishly.

Apishness (n.) The quality of being apish; mimicry; foppery.

Apitpat (adv.) With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat.

Aplacental (a.) Belonging to the Aplacentata; without placenta.

Aplacentata (n. pl.) Mammals which have no placenta.

Aplacophora (n. pl.) A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or covered with slender spines or setae, but is without shelly plates.

Aplanatic (a.) Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combined as to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens.

Aplanatism (n.) Freedom from spherical aberration.

Aplastic (a.) Not plastic or easily molded.

Aplomb (n.) Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.

Aplotomy (n.) Simple incision.

Aplustre (n.) An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usually spreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather.

Aplysia (n.) A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; the sea hare. Some of the species when disturbed throw out a deep purple liquor, which colors the water to some distance. See Illust. in Appendix.

Apneumona (n. pl.) An order of holothurians in which the internal respiratory organs are wanting; -- called also Apoda or Apodes.

Apnoea (n.) Partial privation or suspension of breath; suffocation.

Apo () A prefix from a Greek preposition. It usually signifies from, away from, off, or asunder, separate; as, in apocope (a cutting off), apostate, apostle (one sent away), apocarpous.

Apocalypse (n.) The revelation delivered to St. John, in the isle of Patmos, near the close of the first century, forming the last book of the New Testament.

Apocalypse (n.) Anything viewed as a revelation; a disclosure.

Apocalyptic (a.) Alt. of Apocalyptical

Apocalyptical (a.) Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to the Revelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a prophetic revelation.

Apocalyptic (n.) Alt. of Apocalyptist

Apocalyptist (n.) The writer of the Apocalypse.

Apocalyptically (adv.) By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner.

Apocarpous (a.) Either entirely or partially separate, as the carpels of a compound pistil; -- opposed to syncarpous.

Apocopate (v. t.) To cut off or drop; as, to apocopate a word, or the last letter, syllable, or part of a word.

Apocopate (a.) Alt. of Apocopated

Apocopated (a.) Shortened by apocope; as, an apocopate form.

Apocopation (n.) Shortening by apocope; the state of being apocopated.

Apocope (n.) The cutting off, or omission, of the last letter, syllable, or part of a word.

Apocope (n.) A cutting off; abscission.

Apocrisiary (n.) Alt. of Apocrisiarius

Apocrisiarius (n.) A delegate or deputy; especially, the pope's nuncio or legate at Constantinople.

Apocrustic (a.) Astringent and repellent.

Apocrustic (n.) An apocrustic medicine.

Apocryphas (pl. ) of Apocrypha

Apocrypha (n. pl.) Something, as a writing, that is of doubtful authorship or authority; -- formerly used also adjectively.

Apocrypha (n. pl.) Specif.: Certain writings which are received by some Christians as an authentic part of the Holy Scriptures, but are rejected by others.

Apocryphal (a.) Pertaining to the Apocrypha.

Apocryphal (a.) Not canonical. Hence: Of doubtful authority; equivocal; mythic; fictitious; spurious; false.

Apocryphalist (n.) One who believes in, or defends, the Apocrypha.

Apocryphally (adv.) In an apocryphal manner; mythically; not indisputably.

Apocryphalness (n.) The quality or state of being apocryphal; doubtfulness of credit or genuineness.

Apocynaceous (a.) Alt. of Apocyneous

Apocyneous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a family of plants, of which the dogbane (Apocynum) is the type.

Apocynin (n.) A bitter principle obtained from the dogbane (Apocynum cannabinum).

Apod (n.) Alt. of Apodal

Apodal (n.) Without feet; footless.

Apodal (n.) Destitute of the ventral fin, as the eels.

Apods (pl. ) of Apode

Apodes (pl. ) of Apode

Apod (n.) Alt. of Apode

Apode (n.) One of certain animals that have no feet or footlike organs; esp. one of certain fabulous birds which were said to have no feet.

Apoda (n.) A group of cirripeds, destitute of footlike organs.

Apoda (n.) An order of Amphibia without feet. See Ophiomorpha.

Apoda (n.) A group of worms without appendages, as the leech.

Apodan (a.) Apodal.

Apodeictic (a.) Alt. of Apodictical

Apodictic (a.) Alt. of Apodictical

Apodeictical (a.) Alt. of Apodictical

Apodictical (a.) Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction.

Apodeictically (adv.) Alt. of Apodictically

Apodictically (adv.) So as to be evident beyond contradiction.

Apodeme (n.) One of the processes of the shell which project inwards and unite with one another, in the thorax of many Crustacea.

Apodes (n. pl.) An order of fishes without ventral fins, including the eels.

Apodes (n. pl.) A group of holothurians destitute of suckers. See Apneumona.

Apodictic (a.) Same as Apodeictic.

Apodixis (n.) Full demonstration.

Apodosis (n.) The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence, expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis or clause which expresses a condition. Thus, in the sentence, Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him, the former clause is the protasis, and the latter the apodosis.

Apodous (a.) Apodal; apod.

Apodyterium (n.) The apartment at the entrance of the baths, or in the palestra, where one stripped; a dressing room.

Apogaic (a.) Apogean.

Apogamic (a.) Relating to apogamy.

Apogamy (n.) The formation of a bud in place of a fertilized ovule or oospore.

Apogeal (a.) Apogean.

Apogean (a.) Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, which occur when the moon has passed her apogee.

Apogee (n.) That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest distance from the earth.

Apogee (n.) Fig.: The farthest or highest point; culmination.

Apogeotropic (a.) Bending away from the ground; -- said of leaves, etc.

Apogeotropism (n.) The apogeotropic tendency of some leaves, and other parts.

Apograph (n.) A copy or transcript.

Apohyal (a.) Of or pertaining to a portion of the horn of the hyoid bone.

Apoise (adv.) Balanced.

Apolar (a.) Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly to certain nerve cells.

Apolaustic (a.) Devoted to enjoyment.

Apollinarian (a.) In honor of Apollo; as, the Apollinarian games.

Apollinarian (n.) A follower of Apollinaris, Bishop of Laodicea in the fourth century, who denied the proper humanity of Christ.

Apollinaris water () An effervescing alkaline mineral water used as a table beverage. It is obtained from a spring in Apollinarisburg, near Bonn.

Apollo (n.) A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of light and day (the sun god), of archery, prophecy, medicine, poetry, and music, etc., and was represented as the model of manly grace and beauty; -- called also Phebus.

Apollonian (a.) Alt. of Apollonic

Apollonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Apollo.

Apollyon (n.) The Destroyer; -- a name used (Rev. ix. 11) for the angel of the bottomless pit, answering to the Hebrew Abaddon.

Apologer (n.) A teller of apologues.

Apologetic (a.) Alt. of Apologetical

Apologetical (a.) Defending by words or arguments; said or written in defense, or by way of apology; regretfully excusing; as, an apologetic essay.

Apologetically (adv.) By way of apology.

Apologetics (n.) That branch of theology which defends the Holy Scriptures, and sets forth the evidence of their divine authority.

Apologist (n.) One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defense of a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues in defense of Christianity.

Apologized (imp. & p. p.) of Apologize

Apologizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apologize

Apologize (v. i.) To make an apology or defense.

Apologize (v. i.) To make an apology or excuse; to make acknowledgment of some fault or offense, with expression of regret for it, by way of amends; -- with for; as, my correspondent apologized for not answering my letter.

Apologize (v. t.) To defend.

Apologizer (n.) One who makes an apology; an apologist.

Apologue (n.) A story or relation of fictitious events, intended to convey some moral truth; a moral fable.

Apologies (pl. ) of Apology

Apology (n.) Something said or written in defense or justification of what appears to others wrong, or of what may be liable to disapprobation; justification; as, Tertullian's Apology for Christianity.

Apology (n.) An acknowledgment intended as an atonement for some improper or injurious remark or act; an admission to another of a wrong or discourtesy done him, accompanied by an expression of regret.

Apology (n.) Anything provided as a substitute; a makeshift.

Apology (v. i.) To offer an apology.

Apomecometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the height of objects.

Apomecometry (n.) The art of measuring the distance of objects afar off.

Apomorphia (n.) Alt. of Apomorphine

Apomorphine (n.) A crystalline alkaloid obtained from morphia. It is a powerful emetic.

Aponeuroses (pl. ) of Aponeurosis

Aponeurosis (n.) Any one of the thicker and denser of the deep fasciae which cover, invest, and the terminations and attachments of, many muscles. They often differ from tendons only in being flat and thin. See Fascia.

Aponeurotic (a.) Of or pertaining to an aponeurosis.

Aponeurotomy (n.) Dissection of aponeuroses.

Apopemptic (a.) Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplectic songs or hymns.

Apophasis (n.) A figure by which a speaker formally declines to take notice of a favorable point, but in such a manner as to produce the effect desired. [For example, see Mark Antony's oration. Shak., Julius Caesar, iii. 2.]

Apophlegmatic (a.) Designed to facilitate discharges of phlegm or mucus from mouth or nostrils.

Apophlegmatic (n.) An apophlegmatic medicine.

Apophlegmatism (n.) The action of apophlegmatics.

Apophlegmatism (n.) An apophlegmatic.

Apophlegmatizant (n.) An apophlegmatic.

Apophthegm (n.) See Apothegm.

Apophthegmatic (a.) Alt. of Apophthegmatical

Apophthegmatical (a.) Same as Apothegmatic.

Apophyge (n.) The small hollow curvature given to the top or bottom of the shaft of a column where it expands to meet the edge of the fillet; -- called also the scape.

Apophyllite (n.) A mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in square prisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. It is a hydrous silicate of calcium and potassium.

-ses (pl. ) of Apophysis

Apophysis (n.) A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.

Apophysis (n.) An enlargement at the top of a pedicel or stem, as seen in certain mosses.

Apoplectic (a.) Alt. of Apoplectical

Apoplectical (a.) Relating to apoplexy; affected with, inclined to, or symptomatic of, apoplexy; as, an apoplectic person, medicine, habit or temperament, symptom, fit, or stroke.

Apoplectic (n.) One liable to, or affected with, apoplexy.

Apoplectiform (a.) Alt. of Apoplectoid

Apoplectoid (a.) Resembling apoplexy.

Apoplex (n.) Apoplexy.

Apoplexed (a.) Affected with apoplexy.

Apoplexy (n.) Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, and voluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.

Aporetical (a.) Doubting; skeptical.

Aporias (pl. ) of Aporia

Aporia (n.) A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss what course to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc.

Aporosa (n. pl.) A group of corals in which the coral is not porous; -- opposed to Perforata.

Aporose (a.) Without pores.

Aport (adv.) On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm.

Aposiopesis (n.) A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, as if unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as, I declare to you that his conduct -- but I can not speak of that, here.

Apositic (a.) Destroying the appetite, or suspending hunger.

Apostasies (pl. ) of Apostasy

Apostasy (n.) An abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; a total desertion of departure from one's faith, principles, or party; esp., the renunciation of a religious faith; as, Julian's apostasy from Christianity.

Apostate (n.) One who has forsaken the faith, principles, or party, to which he before adhered; esp., one who has forsaken his religion for another; a pervert; a renegade.

Apostate (n.) One who, after having received sacred orders, renounces his clerical profession.

Apostate (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, apostasy; faithless to moral allegiance; renegade.

Apostate (v. i.) To apostatize.

Apostatic (a.) Apostatical.

Apostatical (a.) Apostate.

Apostatized (imp. & p. p.) of Apostatize

Apostatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apostatize

Apostatize (v. i.) To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; to forsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the party to which one has previously adhered.

Apostemate (v. i.) To form an abscess; to swell and fill with pus.

Apostemation (n.) The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration.

Apostematous (a.) Pertaining to, or partaking of the nature of, an aposteme.

Aposteme (n.) An abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter.

A posteriori () Characterizing that kind of reasoning which derives propositions from the observation of facts, or by generalizations from facts arrives at principles and definitions, or infers causes from effects. This is the reverse of a priori reasoning.

A posteriori () Applied to knowledge which is based upon or derived from facts through induction or experiment; inductive or empirical.

Apostil (n.) Alt. of Apostille

Apostille (n.) A marginal note on a letter or other paper; an annotation.

Apostle (n.) Literally: One sent forth; a messenger. Specifically: One of the twelve disciples of Christ, specially chosen as his companions and witnesses, and sent forth to preach the gospel.

Apostle (n.) The missionary who first plants the Christian faith in any part of the world; also, one who initiates any great moral reform, or first advocates any important belief; one who has extraordinary success as a missionary or reformer; as, Dionysius of Corinth is called the apostle of France, John Eliot the apostle to the Indians, Theobald Mathew the apostle of temperance.

Apostle (n.) A brief letter dimissory sent by a court appealed from to the superior court, stating the case, etc.; a paper sent up on appeals in the admiralty courts.

Apostleship (n.) The office or dignity of an apostle.

Apostolate (n.) The dignity, office, or mission, of an apostle; apostleship.

Apostolate (n.) The dignity or office of the pope, as the holder of the apostolic see.

Apostolic (a.) Alt. of Apostolical

Apostolical (a.) Pertaining to an apostle, or to the apostles, their times, or their peculiar spirit; as, an apostolical mission; the apostolic age.

Apostolical (a.) According to the doctrines of the apostles; delivered or taught by the apostles; as, apostolic faith or practice.

Apostolical (a.) Of or pertaining to the pope or the papacy; papal.

Apostolic (n.) A member of one of certain ascetic sects which at various times professed to imitate the practice of the apostles.

Apostolically (adv.) In an apostolic manner.

Apostolicalness (n.) Apostolicity.

Apostolicism (n.) Alt. of Apostolicity

Apostolicity (n.) The state or quality of being apostolical.

Apostrophe (n.) A figure of speech by which the orator or writer suddenly breaks off from the previous method of his discourse, and addresses, in the second person, some person or thing, absent or present; as, Milton's apostrophe to Light at the beginning of the third book of Paradise Lost.

Apostrophe (n.) The contraction of a word by the omission of a letter or letters, which omission is marked by the character ['] placed where the letter or letters would have been; as, call'd for called.

Apostrophe (n.) The mark ['] used to denote that a word is contracted (as in ne'er for never, can't for can not), and as a sign of the possessive, singular and plural; as, a boy's hat, boys' hats. In the latter use it originally marked the omission of the letter e.

Apostrophic (a.) Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical.

Apostrophize (p. pr. & vb. n.) To address by apostrophe.

Apostrophize (p. pr. & vb. n.) To contract by omitting a letter or letters; also, to mark with an apostrophe (') or apostrophes.

Apostrophize (v. i.) To use the rhetorical figure called apostrophe.

Apostume (n.) See Aposteme.

Apotactite (n.) One of a sect of ancient Christians, who, in supposed imitation of the first believers, renounced all their possessions.

Apotelesm (n.) The result or issue.

Apotelesm (n.) The calculation and explanation of a nativity.

Apotelesmatic (a.) Relating to the casting of horoscopes.

Apotelesmatic (a.) Relating to an issue of fulfillment.

Apothecaries (pl. ) of Apothecary

Apothecary (n.) One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinal purposes.

Apothecia (pl. ) of Apothecium

Apothecium (n.) The ascigerous fructification of lichens, forming masses of various shapes.

Apothegm (n.) Alt. of Apophthegm

Apophthegm (n.) A short, pithy, and instructive saying; a terse remark, conveying some important truth; a sententious precept or maxim.

Apothegmatic (a.) Alt. of Apothegmatical

Apothegmatical (a.) Pertaining to, or in the manner of, an apothegm; sententious; pithy.

Apothegmatist (n.) A collector or maker of apothegms.

Apothegmatize (v. i.) To utter apothegms, or short and sententious sayings.

Apothem (n.) The perpendicular from the center to one of the sides of a regular polygon.

Apothem (n.) A deposit formed in a liquid extract of a vegetable substance by exposure to the air.

Apotheoses (pl. ) of Apotheosis

Apotheosis (n. pl.) The act of elevating a mortal to the rank of, and placing him among, the gods; deification.

Apotheosis (n. pl.) Glorification; exaltation.

Apotheosize (v. t.) To exalt to the dignity of a deity; to declare to be a god; to deify; to glorify.

Apothesis (n.) A place on the south side of the chancel in the primitive churches, furnished with shelves, for books, vestments, etc.

Apothesis (n.) A dressing room connected with a public bath.

Apotome (n.) The difference between two quantities commensurable only in power, as between 2 and 1, or between the diagonal and side of a square.

Apotome (n.) The remaining part of a whole tone after a smaller semitone has been deducted from it; a major semitone.

Apozem (n.) A decoction or infusion.

Apozemical (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a decoction.

Appair (v. t. & i.) To impair; to grow worse.

Appalachian (a.) Of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States, commonly called the Allegheny mountains.

Appalled (imp. & p. p.) of Appall

Appalling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appall

Appall (a.) To make pale; to blanch.

Appall (a.) To weaken; to enfeeble; to reduce; as, an old appalled wight.

Appall (a.) To depress or discourage with fear; to impress with fear in such a manner that the mind shrinks, or loses its firmness; to overcome with sudden terror or horror; to dismay; as, the sight appalled the stoutest heart.

Appall (v. i.) To grow faint; to become weak; to become dismayed or discouraged.

Appall (v. i.) To lose flavor or become stale.

Appall (n.) Terror; dismay.

Appalling (a.) Such as to appall; as, an appalling accident.

Appallment (n.) Depression occasioned by terror; dismay.

Appanage (n.) The portion of land assigned by a sovereign prince for the subsistence of his younger sons.

Appanage (n.) A dependency; a dependent territory.

Appanage (n.) That which belongs to one by custom or right; a natural adjunct or accompaniment.

Appanagist (n.) A prince to whom an appanage has been granted.

Apparaillyng (v.) Preparation.

Apparatus (pl. ) of Apparatus

Apparatuses (pl. ) of Apparatus

Apparatus (n.) Things provided as means to some end.

Apparatus (n.) Hence: A full collection or set of implements, or utensils, for a given duty, experimental or operative; any complex instrument or appliance, mechanical or chemical, for a specific action or operation; machinery; mechanism.

Apparatus (n.) A collection of organs all of which unite in a common function; as, the respiratory apparatus.

Apparel (n.) External clothing; vesture; garments; dress; garb; external habiliments or array.

Apparel (n.) A small ornamental piece of embroidery worn on albs and some other ecclesiastical vestments.

Apparel (n.) The furniture of a ship, as masts, sails, rigging, anchors, guns, etc.

Appareled (imp. & p. p.) of Apparel

Apparelled () of Apparel

Appareling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apparel

Apparelling () of Apparel

Apparel (v. t.) To make or get (something) ready; to prepare.

Apparel (v. t.) To furnish with apparatus; to equip; to fit out.

Apparel (v. t.) To dress or clothe; to attire.

Apparel (v. t.) To dress with external ornaments; to cover with something ornamental; to deck; to embellish; as, trees appareled with flowers, or a garden with verdure.

Apparence (n.) Appearance.

Apparency (n.) Appearance.

Apparency (n.) Apparentness; state of being apparent.

Apparency (n.) The position of being heir apparent.

Apparent (a.) Capable of being seen, or easily seen; open to view; visible to the eye; within sight or view.

Apparent (a.) Clear or manifest to the understanding; plain; evident; obvious; known; palpable; indubitable.

Apparent (a.) Appearing to the eye or mind (distinguished from, but not necessarily opposed to, true or real); seeming; as the apparent motion or diameter of the sun.

Apparent (n.) An heir apparent.

Apparently (adv.) Visibly.

Apparently (adv.) Plainly; clearly; manifestly; evidently.

Apparently (adv.) Seemingly; in appearance; as, a man may be apparently friendly, yet malicious in heart.

Apparentness (n.) Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness.

Apparition (n.) The act of becoming visible; appearance; visibility.

Apparition (n.) The thing appearing; a visible object; a form.

Apparition (n.) An unexpected, wonderful, or preternatural appearance; a ghost; a specter; a phantom.

Apparition (n.) The first appearance of a star or other luminary after having been invisible or obscured; -- opposed to occultation.

Apparitional (a.) Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral.

Apparitor (n.) Formerly, an officer who attended magistrates and judges to execute their orders.

Apparitor (n.) A messenger or officer who serves the process of an ecclesiastical court.

Appaume (n.) A hand open and extended so as to show the palm.

Appay (v. t.) To pay; to satisfy or appease.

Appeach (v. t.) To impeach; to accuse; to asperse; to inform against; to reproach.

Appeacher (n.) An accuser.

Appeachment (n.) Accusation.

Appealed (imp. & p. p.) of Appeal

Appealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appeal

Appeal (v. t.) To make application for the removal of (a cause) from an inferior to a superior judge or court for a rehearing or review on account of alleged injustice or illegality in the trial below. We say, the cause was appealed from an inferior court.

Appeal (v. t.) To charge with a crime; to accuse; to institute a private criminal prosecution against for some heinous crime; as, to appeal a person of felony.

Appeal (v. t.) To summon; to challenge.

Appeal (v. t.) To invoke.

Appeal (v. t.) To apply for the removal of a cause from an inferior to a superior judge or court for the purpose of reexamination of for decision.

Appeal (v. t.) To call upon another to decide a question controverted, to corroborate a statement, to vindicate one's rights, etc.; as, I appeal to all mankind for the truth of what is alleged. Hence: To call on one for aid; to make earnest request.

Appeal (v. t.) An application for the removal of a cause or suit from an inferior to a superior judge or court for reexamination or review.

Appeal (v. t.) The mode of proceeding by which such removal is effected.

Appeal (v. t.) The right of appeal.

Appeal (v. t.) An accusation; a process which formerly might be instituted by one private person against another for some heinous crime demanding punishment for the particular injury suffered, rather than for the offense against the public.

Appeal (v. t.) An accusation of a felon at common law by one of his accomplices, which accomplice was then called an approver. See Approvement.

Appeal (v. t.) A summons to answer to a charge.

Appeal (v. t.) A call upon a person or an authority for proof or decision, in one's favor; reference to another as witness; a call for help or a favor; entreaty.

Appeal (v. t.) Resort to physical means; recourse.

Appealable (a.) Capable of being appealed against; that may be removed to a higher tribunal for decision; as, the cause is appealable.

Appealable (a.) That may be accused or called to answer by appeal; as, a criminal is appealable for manslaughter.

Appealant (n.) An appellant.

Appealer (n.) One who makes an appeal.

Appealing (a.) That appeals; imploring.

Appeared (imp. & p. p.) of Appear

Appearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appear

Appear (v. i.) To come or be in sight; to be in view; to become visible.

Appear (v. i.) To come before the public; as, a great writer appeared at that time.

Appear (v. i.) To stand in presence of some authority, tribunal, or superior person, to answer a charge, plead a cause, or the like; to present one's self as a party or advocate before a court, or as a person to be tried.

Appear (v. i.) To become visible to the apprehension of the mind; to be known as a subject of observation or comprehension, or as a thing proved; to be obvious or manifest.

Appear (v. i.) To seem; to have a certain semblance; to look.

Appear (n.) Appearance.

Appearance (n.) The act of appearing or coming into sight; the act of becoming visible to the eye; as, his sudden appearance surprised me.

Appearance (n.) A thing seed; a phenomenon; a phase; an apparition; as, an appearance in the sky.

Appearance (n.) Personal presence; exhibition of the person; look; aspect; mien.

Appearance (n.) Semblance, or apparent likeness; external show. pl. Outward signs, or circumstances, fitted to make a particular impression or to determine the judgment as to the character of a person or a thing, an act or a state; as, appearances are against him.

Appearance (n.) The act of appearing in a particular place, or in society, a company, or any proceedings; a coming before the public in a particular character; as, a person makes his appearance as an historian, an artist, or an orator.

Appearance (n.) Probability; likelihood.

Appearance (n.) The coming into court of either of the parties; the being present in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in an action, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formal entry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding by which a party proceeded against places himself before the court, and submits to its jurisdiction.

Appearer (n.) One who appears.

Appearingly (adv.) Apparently.

Appeasable (a.) Capable of being appeased or pacified; placable.

Appealed (imp. & p. p.) of Appease

Appeasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appease

Appease (v. t.) To make quiet; to calm; to reduce to a state of peace; to still; to pacify; to dispel (anger or hatred); as, to appease the tumult of the ocean, or of the passions; to appease hunger or thirst.

Appeasement (n.) The act of appeasing, or the state of being appeased; pacification.

Appeaser (n.) One who appeases; a pacifier.

Appeasive (a.) Tending to appease.

Appellable (a.) Appealable.

Appellancy (n.) Capability of appeal.

Appellant (a.) Relating to an appeal; appellate.

Appellant (n.) One who accuses another of felony or treason.

Appellant (n.) One who appeals, or asks for a rehearing or review of a cause by a higher tribunal.

Appellant (n.) A challenger.

Appellant (n.) One who appealed to a general council against the bull Unigenitus.

Appellant (n.) One who appeals or entreats.

Appellate (a.) Pertaining to, or taking cognizance of, appeals.

Appellate (n.) A person or prosecuted for a crime. [Obs.] See Appellee.

Appellation (n.) The act of appealing; appeal.

Appellation (n.) The act of calling by a name.

Appellation (n.) The word by which a particular person or thing is called and known; name; title; designation.

Appellative (a.) Pertaining to a common name; serving as a distinctive denomination; denominative; naming.

Appellative (a.) Common, as opposed to proper; denominative of a class.

Appellative (n.) A common name, in distinction from a proper name. A common name, or appellative, stands for a whole class, genus, or species of beings, or for universal ideas. Thus, tree is the name of all plants of a particular class; plant and vegetable are names of things that grow out of the earth. A proper name, on the other hand, stands for a single thing; as, Rome, Washington, Lake Erie.

Appellative (n.) An appellation or title; a descriptive name.

Appellatively (adv.) After the manner of nouns appellative; in a manner to express whole classes or species; as, Hercules is sometimes used appellatively, that is, as a common name, to signify a strong man.

Appellativeness (n.) The quality of being appellative.

Appellatory (a.) Containing an appeal.

Appellee (n.) The defendant in an appeal; -- opposed to appellant.

Appellee (n.) The person who is appealed against, or accused of crime; -- opposed to appellor.

Appellor (n.) The person who institutes an appeal, or prosecutes another for a crime.

Appellor (n.) One who confesses a felony committed and accuses his accomplices.

Appenage (n.) See Appanage.

Appended (imp. & p. p.) of Append

Appending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Append

Append (v. t.) To hang or attach to, as by a string, so that the thing is suspended; as, a seal appended to a record; the inscription was appended to the column.

Append (v. t.) To add, as an accessory to the principal thing; to annex; as, notes appended to this chapter.

Appendage (n.) Something appended to, or accompanying, a principal or greater thing, though not necessary to it, as a portico to a house.

Appendage (n.) A subordinate or subsidiary part or organ; an external organ or limb, esp. of the articulates.

Appendaged (a.) Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage.

Appendance (n.) Something appendant.

Appendant (v. t.) Hanging; annexed; adjunct; concomitant; as, a seal appendant to a paper.

Appendant (v. t.) Appended by prescription, that is, a personal usage for a considerable time; -- said of a thing of inheritance belonging to another inheritance which is superior or more worthy; as, an advowson, common, etc. , which may be appendant to a manor, common of fishing to a freehold, a seat in church to a house.

Appendant (n.) Anything attached to another as incidental or subordinate to it.

Appendant (n.) A inheritance annexed by prescription to a superior inheritance.

Appendence (n.) Alt. of Appendency

Appendency (n.) State of being appendant; appendance.

Appendical (a.) Of or like an appendix.

Appendicate (v. t.) To append.

Appendication (n.) An appendage.

Appendicitis (n.) Inflammation of the vermiform appendix.

Appendicle (n.) A small appendage.

Appendicular (a.) Relating to an appendicle; appendiculate.

Appendicularia (n.) A genus of small free-swimming Tunicata, shaped somewhat like a tadpole, and remarkable for resemblances to the larvae of other Tunicata. It is the type of the order Copelata or Larvalia. See Illustration in Appendix.

Appendiculata (n. pl.) An order of annelids; the Polych/ta.

Appendiculate (a.) Having small appendages; forming an appendage.

Appendixes (pl. ) of Appendix

Appendices (pl. ) of Appendix

Appendix (n.) Something appended or added; an appendage, adjunct, or concomitant.

Appendix (n.) Any literary matter added to a book, but not necessarily essential to its completeness, and thus distinguished from supplement, which is intended to supply deficiencies and correct inaccuracies.

Appension (n.) The act of appending.

Apperceive (v. t.) To perceive; to comprehend.

Apperception (n.) The mind's perception of itself as the subject or actor in its own states; perception that reflects upon itself; sometimes, intensified or energetic perception.

Apperil (n.) Peril.

Appertained (imp. & p. p.) of Appertain

Appertaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appertain

Appertain (v. i.) To belong or pertain, whether by right, nature, appointment, or custom; to relate.

Appertainment (n.) That which appertains to a person; an appurtenance.

Appertinance (n.) Alt. of Appertinence

Appertinence (n.) See Appurtenance.

Appertinent (a.) Belonging; appertaining.

Appertinent (n.) That which belongs to something else; an appurtenant.

Appete (v. t.) To seek for; to desire.

Appetence (n.) A longing; a desire; especially an ardent desire; appetite; appetency.

Appetencies (pl. ) of Appetency

Appetency (n.) Fixed and strong desire; esp. natural desire; a craving; an eager appetite.

Appetency (n.) Specifically: An instinctive inclination or propensity in animals to perform certain actions, as in the young to suck, in aquatic fowls to enter into water and to swim; the tendency of an organized body to seek what satisfies the wants of its organism.

Appetency (n.) Natural tendency; affinity; attraction; -- used of inanimate objects.

Appetent (a.) Desiring; eagerly desirous.

Appetibility (n.) The quality of being desirable.

Appetible (a.) Desirable; capable or worthy of being the object of desire.

Appetite (n.) The desire for some personal gratification, either of the body or of the mind.

Appetite (n.) Desire for, or relish of, food or drink; hunger.

Appetite (n.) Any strong desire; an eagerness or longing.

Appetite (n.) Tendency; appetency.

Appetite (n.) The thing desired.

Appetition (n.) Desire; a longing for, or seeking after, something.

Appetitive (a.) Having the quality of desiring gratification; as, appetitive power or faculty.

Appetize (v. t.) To make hungry; to whet the appetite of.

Appetizer (n.) Something which creates or whets an appetite.

Appetizing (a.) Exciting appetite; as, appetizing food.

Appetizing (adv.) So as to excite appetite.

Appian (a.) Of or pertaining to Appius.

Applauded (imp. & p. p.) of Applaud

Applauding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Applaud

Applaud (v. t.) To show approval of by clapping the hands, acclamation, or other significant sign.

Applaud (v. t.) To praise by words; to express approbation of; to commend; to approve.

Applaud (v. i.) To express approbation loudly or significantly.

Applauder (n.) One who applauds.

Applausable (a.) Worthy of applause; praiseworthy.

Applause (n.) The act of applauding; approbation and praise publicly expressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet, acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation.

Applausive (a.) Expressing applause; approbative.

Apple (n.) The fleshy pome or fruit of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus malus) cultivated in numberless varieties in the temperate zones.

Apple (n.) Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the base of the fruit; an apple tree.

Apple (n.) Any fruit or other vegetable production resembling, or supposed to resemble, the apple; as, apple of love, or love apple (a tomato), balsam apple, egg apple, oak apple.

Apple (n.) Anything round like an apple; as, an apple of gold.

Apple (v. i.) To grow like an apple; to bear apples.

Apple-faced (a.) Having a round, broad face, like an apple.

Apple-jack (n.) Apple brandy.

Apple-john (n.) A kind of apple which by keeping becomes much withered; -- called also Johnapple.

Apple pie () A pie made of apples (usually sliced or stewed) with spice and sugar.

Apple-squire (n.) A pimp; a kept gallant.

Appliable (a.) Applicable; also, compliant.

Appliance (n.) The act of applying; application; [Obs.] subservience.

Appliance (n.) The thing applied or used as a means to an end; an apparatus or device; as, to use various appliances; a mechanical appliance; a machine with its appliances.

Applicability (n.) The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied.

Applicable (a.) Capable of being applied; fit or suitable to be applied; having relevance; as, this observation is applicable to the case under consideration.

Applicancy (n.) The quality or state of being applicable.

Applicant (n.) One who apples for something; one who makes request; a petitioner.

Applicate (a.) Applied or put to some use.

Applicate (v. i.) To apply.

Application (n.) The act of applying or laying on, in a literal sense; as, the application of emollients to a diseased limb.

Application (n.) The thing applied.

Application (n.) The act of applying as a means; the employment of means to accomplish an end; specific use.

Application (n.) The act of directing or referring something to a particular case, to discover or illustrate agreement or disagreement, fitness, or correspondence; as, I make the remark, and leave you to make the application; the application of a theory.

Application (n.) Hence, in specific uses: (a) That part of a sermon or discourse in which the principles before laid down and illustrated are applied to practical uses; the moral of a fable. (b) The use of the principles of one science for the purpose of enlarging or perfecting another; as, the application of algebra to geometry.

Application (n.) The capacity of being practically applied or used; relevancy; as, a rule of general application.

Application (n.) The act of fixing the mind or closely applying one's self; assiduous effort; close attention; as, to injure the health by application to study.

Application (n.) The act of making request of soliciting; as, an application for an office; he made application to a court of chancery.

Application (n.) A request; a document containing a request; as, his application was placed on file.

Applicative (a.) Capable of being applied or used; applying; applicatory; practical.

Applicatorily (adv.) By way of application.

Applicatory (a.) Having the property of applying; applicative; practical.

Applicatory (n.) That which applies.

Appliedly (adv.) By application.

Applier (n.) He who, or that which, applies.

Appliment (n.) Application.

Applique (a.) Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of another color or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, applique lace; applique work.

Applotted (imp. & p. p.) of Applot

Applotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Applot

Applot (v. t.) To divide into plots or parts; to apportion.

Applotment (n.) Apportionment.

Applied (imp. & p. p.) of Apply

Applying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apply

Apply (v. t.) To lay or place; to put or adjust (one thing to another); -- with to; as, to apply the hand to the breast; to apply medicaments to a diseased part of the body.

Apply (v. t.) To put to use; to use or employ for a particular purpose, or in a particular case; to appropriate; to devote; as, to apply money to the payment of a debt.

Apply (v. t.) To make use of, declare, or pronounce, as suitable, fitting, or relative; as, to apply the testimony to the case; to apply an epithet to a person.

Apply (v. t.) To fix closely; to engage and employ diligently, or with attention; to attach; to incline.

Apply (v. t.) To direct or address.

Apply (v. t.) To betake; to address; to refer; -- used reflexively.

Apply (v. t.) To busy; to keep at work; to ply.

Apply (v. t.) To visit.

Apply (v. i.) To suit; to agree; to have some connection, agreement, or analogy; as, this argument applies well to the case.

Apply (v. i.) To make request; to have recourse with a view to gain something; to make application. (to); to solicit; as, to apply to a friend for information.

Apply (v. i.) To ply; to move.

Apply (v. i.) To apply or address one's self; to give application; to attend closely (to).

Appoggiatura (n.) A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing the time it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note one degree above or below the principal note unless it be of the same harmony; -- generally indicated by a note of smaller size, as in the illustration above. It forms no essential part of the harmony.

Appointed (imp. & p. p.) of Appoint

Appointing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appoint

Appoint (v. t.) To fix with power or firmness; to establish; to mark out.

Appoint (v. t.) To fix by a decree, order, command, resolve, decision, or mutual agreement; to constitute; to ordain; to prescribe; to fix the time and place of.

Appoint (v. t.) To assign, designate, or set apart by authority.

Appoint (v. t.) To furnish in all points; to provide with everything necessary by way of equipment; to equip; to fit out.

Appoint (v. t.) To point at by way, or for the purpose, of censure or commendation; to arraign.

Appoint (v. t.) To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a new disposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance; -- said of an estate already conveyed.

Appoint (v. i.) To ordain; to determine; to arrange.

Appointable (a.) Capable of being appointed or constituted.

Appointee (v. t.) A person appointed.

Appointee (v. t.) A person in whose favor a power of appointment is executed.

Appointer (n.) One who appoints, or executes a power of appointment.

Appointive (a.) Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office.

Appointment (n.) The act of appointing; designation of a person to hold an office or discharge a trust; as, he erred by the appointment of unsuitable men.

Appointment (n.) The state of being appointed to som/ service or office; an office to which one is appointed; station; position; an, the appointment of treasurer.

Appointment (n.) Stipulation; agreement; the act of fixing by mutual agreement. Hence:: Arrangement for a meeting; engagement; as, they made an appointment to meet at six.

Appointment (n.) Decree; direction; established order or constitution; as, to submit to the divine appointments.

Appointment (n.) The exercise of the power of designating (under a power of appointment) a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property; also, the instrument by which the designation is made.

Appointment (n.) Equipment, furniture, as for a ship or an army; whatever is appointed for use and management; outfit; (pl.) the accouterments of military officers or soldiers, as belts, sashes, swords.

Appointment (n.) An allowance to a person, esp. to a public officer; a perquisite; -- properly only in the plural.

Appointment (n.) A honorary part or exercise, as an oration, etc., at a public exhibition of a college; as, to have an appointment.

Appointor (n.) The person who selects the appointee. See Appointee, 2.

Apporter (n.) A bringer in; an importer.

Apportioned (imp. & p. p.) of Apportion

Apportioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apportion

Apportion (v. t.) To divide and assign in just proportion; to divide and distribute proportionally; to portion out; to allot; as, to apportion undivided rights; to apportion time among various employments.

Apportionateness (n.) The quality of being apportioned or in proportion.

Apportioner (n.) One who apportions.

Apportionment (n.) The act of apportioning; a dividing into just proportions or shares; a division or shares; a division and assignment, to each proprietor, of his just portion of an undivided right or property.

Appose (v. t.) To place opposite or before; to put or apply (one thing to another).

Appose (v. t.) To place in juxtaposition or proximity.

Appose (v. t.) To put questions to; to examine; to try. [Obs.] See Pose.

Apposed (a.) Placed in apposition; mutually fitting, as the mandibles of a bird's beak.

Apposer (n.) An examiner; one whose business is to put questions. Formerly, in the English Court of Exchequer, an officer who audited the sheriffs' accounts.

Apposite (a.) Very applicable; well adapted; suitable or fit; relevant; pat; -- followed by to; as, this argument is very apposite to the case.

Apposition (n.) The act of adding; application; accretion.

Apposition (n.) The putting of things in juxtaposition, or side by side; also, the condition of being so placed.

Apposition (n.) The state of two nouns or pronouns, put in the same case, without a connecting word between them; as, I admire Cicero, the orator. Here, the second noun explains or characterizes the first.

Appositional (a.) Pertaining to apposition; put in apposition syntactically.

Appositive (a.) Of or relating to apposition; in apposition.

Appositive (n.) A noun in apposition.

Appraisable (a.) Capable of being appraised.

Appraisal (n.) A valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement.

Appraised (imp. & p. p.) of Appraise

Appraising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appraise

Appraise (v. t.) To set a value; to estimate the worth of, particularly by persons appointed for the purpose; as, to appraise goods and chattels.

Appraise (v. t.) To estimate; to conjecture.

Appraise (v. t.) To praise; to commend.

Appraisement (n.) The act of setting the value; valuation by an appraiser; estimation of worth.

Appraiser (n.) One who appraises; esp., a person appointed and sworn to estimate and fix the value of goods or estates.

Apprecation (n.) Earnest prayer; devout wish.

Apprecatory (a.) Praying or wishing good.

Appreciable (a.) Capable of being appreciated or estimated; large enough to be estimated; perceptible; as, an appreciable quantity.

Appreciant (a.) Appreciative.

Appreciated (imp. & p. p.) of Appreciate

Appreciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appreciate

Appreciate (v. t.) To set a price or value on; to estimate justly; to value.

Appreciate (v. t.) To raise the value of; to increase the market price of; -- opposed to depreciate.

Appreciate (v. t.) To be sensible of; to distinguish.

Appreciate (v. i.) To rise in value. [See note under Rise, v. i.]

Appreciatingly (adv.) In an appreciating manner; with appreciation.

Appreciation (n.) A just valuation or estimate of merit, worth, weight, etc.; recognition of excellence.

Appreciation (n.) Accurate perception; true estimation; as, an appreciation of the difficulties before us; an appreciation of colors.

Appreciation (n.) A rise in value; -- opposed to depreciation.

Appreciative (a.) Having or showing a just or ready appreciation or perception; as, an appreciative audience.

Appreciativeness (n.) The quality of being appreciative; quick recognition of excellence.

Appreciator (n.) One who appreciates.

Appreciatory (a.) Showing appreciation; appreciative; as, appreciatory commendation.

Apprehended (imp. & p. p.) of Apprehend

Apprehending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apprehend

Apprehend (v. t.) To take or seize; to take hold of.

Apprehend (v. t.) Hence: To take or seize (a person) by legal process; to arrest; as, to apprehend a criminal.

Apprehend (v. t.) To take hold of with the understanding, that is, to conceive in the mind; to become cognizant of; to understand; to recognize; to consider.

Apprehend (v. t.) To know or learn with certainty.

Apprehend (v. t.) To anticipate; esp., to anticipate with anxiety, dread, or fear; to fear.

Apprehend (v. i.) To think, believe, or be of opinion; to understand; to suppose.

Apprehend (v. i.) To be apprehensive; to fear.

Apprehender (n.) One who apprehends.

Apprehensibiity (n.) The quality of being apprehensible.

Apprehensible (a.) Capable of being apprehended or conceived.

Apprehension (n.) The act of seizing or taking hold of; seizure; as, the hand is an organ of apprehension.

Apprehension (n.) The act of seizing or taking by legal process; arrest; as, the felon, after his apprehension, escaped.

Apprehension (n.) The act of grasping with the intellect; the contemplation of things, without affirming, denying, or passing any judgment; intellection; perception.

Apprehension (n.) Opinion; conception; sentiment; idea.

Apprehension (n.) The faculty by which ideas are conceived; understanding; as, a man of dull apprehension.

Apprehension (n.) Anticipation, mostly of things unfavorable; distrust or fear at the prospect of future evil.

Apprehensive (a.) Capable of apprehending, or quick to do so; apt; discerning.

Apprehensive (a.) Knowing; conscious; cognizant.

Apprehensive (a.) Relating to the faculty of apprehension.

Apprehensive (a.) Anticipative of something unfavorable' fearful of what may be coming; in dread of possible harm; in expectation of evil.

Apprehensive (a.) Sensible; feeling; perceptive.

Apprehensively (adv.) In an apprehensive manner; with apprehension of danger.

Apprehensiveness (n.) The quality or state of being apprehensive.

Apprentice (n.) One who is bound by indentures or by legal agreement to serve a mechanic, or other person, for a certain time, with a view to learn the art, or trade, in which his master is bound to instruct him.

Apprentice (n.) One not well versed in a subject; a tyro.

Apprentice (n.) A barrister, considered a learner of law till of sixteen years' standing, when he might be called to the rank of serjeant.

Apprenticed (imp. & p. p.) of Apprentice

Apprenticing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apprentice

Apprentice (v. t.) To bind to, or put under the care of, a master, for the purpose of instruction in a trade or business.

Apprenticeage (n.) Apprenticeship.

Apprenticehood (n.) Apprenticeship.

Apprenticeship (n.) The service or condition of an apprentice; the state in which a person is gaining instruction in a trade or art, under legal agreement.

Apprenticeship (n.) The time an apprentice is serving (sometimes seven years, as from the age of fourteen to twenty-one).

Appressed (a.) Alt. of Apprest

Apprest (a.) Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its whole length, as against a stem,

Apprised (imp. & p. p.) of Apprise

Apprising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apprise

Apprise (v. t.) To give notice, verbal or written; to inform; -- followed by of; as, we will apprise the general of an intended attack; he apprised the commander of what he had done.

Apprise (n.) Notice; information.

Apprizal (n.) See Appraisal.

Apprize (v. t.) To appraise; to value; to appreciate.

Apprizement (n.) Appraisement.

Apprizer (n.) An appraiser.

Apprizer (n.) A creditor for whom an appraisal is made.

Approached (imp. & p. p.) of Approach

Approaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Approach

Approach (v. i.) To come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance nearer.

Approach (v. i.) To draw near, in a figurative sense; to make advances; to approximate; as, he approaches to the character of the ablest statesman.

Approach (v. t.) To bring near; to cause to draw near; to advance.

Approach (v. t.) To come near to in place, time, or character; to draw nearer to; as, to approach the city; to approach my cabin; he approached the age of manhood.

Approach (v. t.) To take approaches to.

Approach (v. i.) The act of drawing near; a coming or advancing near.

Approach (v. i.) A access, or opportunity of drawing near.

Approach (v. i.) Movements to gain favor; advances.

Approach (v. i.) A way, passage, or avenue by which a place or buildings can be approached; an access.

Approach (v. i.) The advanced works, trenches, or covered roads made by besiegers in their advances toward a fortress or military post.

Approach (v. i.) See Approaching.

Approachability (n.) The quality of being approachable; approachableness.

Approachable (a.) Capable of being approached; accessible; as, approachable virtue.

Approachableness (n.) The quality or state of being approachable; accessibility.

Approacher (n.) One who approaches.

Approaching (n.) The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree into another, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also, inarching and grafting by approach.

Approachless (a.) Impossible to be approached.

Approachment (n.) Approach.

Approbate (a.) Approved.

Approbate (v. t.) To express approbation of; to approve; to sanction officially.

Approbation (n.) Proof; attestation.

Approbation (n.) The act of approving; an assenting to the propriety of a thing with some degree of pleasure or satisfaction; approval; sanction; commendation.

Approbation (n.) Probation or novitiate.

Approbative (a.) Approving, or implying approbation.

Approbativeness (n.) The quality of being approbative.

Approbativeness (n.) Love of approbation.

Approbator (n.) One who approves.

Approbatory (a.) Containing or expressing approbation; commendatory.

Appromt (v. t.) To quicken; to prompt.

Approof (n.) Trial; proof.

Approof (n.) Approval; commendation.

Appropinquate (v. i.) To approach.

Appropinquation (n.) A drawing nigh; approach.

Appropinquity (n.) Nearness; propinquity.

Appropre (v. t.) To appropriate.

Appropriable (a.) Capable of being appropriated, set apart, sequestered, or assigned exclusively to a particular use.

Appropriament (n.) What is peculiarly one's own; peculiar qualification.

Appropriate (a.) Set apart for a particular use or person. Hence: Belonging peculiarly; peculiar; suitable; fit; proper.

Appropriated (imp. & p. p.) of Appropriate

Appropriating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appropriate

Appropriate (v. t.) To take to one's self in exclusion of others; to claim or use as by an exclusive right; as, let no man appropriate the use of a common benefit.

Appropriate (v. t.) To set apart for, or assign to, a particular person or use, in exclusion of all others; -- with to or for; as, a spot of ground is appropriated for a garden; to appropriate money for the increase of the navy.

Appropriate (v. t.) To make suitable; to suit.

Appropriate (v. t.) To annex, as a benefice, to a spiritual corporation, as its property.

Appropriate (n.) A property; attribute.

Appropriately (adv.) In an appropriate or proper manner; fitly; properly.

Appropriateness (n.) The state or quality of being appropriate; peculiar fitness.

Appropriation (n.) The act of setting apart or assigning to a particular use or person, or of taking to one's self, in exclusion of all others; application to a special use or purpose, as of a piece of ground for a park, or of money to carry out some object.

Appropriation (n.) Anything, especially money, thus set apart.

Appropriation (n.) The severing or sequestering of a benefice to the perpetual use of a spiritual corporation. Blackstone.

Appropriation (n.) The application of payment of money by a debtor to his creditor, to one of several debts which are due from the former to the latter.

Appropriative (a.) Appropriating; making, or tending to, appropriation; as, an appropriative act.

Appropriator (n.) One who appropriates.

Appropriator (n.) A spiritual corporation possessed of an appropriated benefice; also, an impropriator.

Approvable (a.) Worthy of being approved; meritorious.

Approval (n.) Approbation; sanction.

Approvance (n.) Approval.

Approved (imp. & p. p.) of Approve

Approving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Approve

Approve (v. t.) To show to be real or true; to prove.

Approve (v. t.) To make proof of; to demonstrate; to prove or show practically.

Approve (v. t.) To sanction officially; to ratify; to confirm; as, to approve the decision of a court-martial.

Approve (v. t.) To regard as good; to commend; to be pleased with; to think well of; as, we approve the measured of the administration.

Approve (v. t.) To make or show to be worthy of approbation or acceptance.

Approve (v. t.) To make profit of; to convert to one's own profit; -- said esp. of waste or common land appropriated by the lord of the manor.

Approvedly (adv.) So as to secure approbation; in an approved manner.

Approvement (n.) Approbation.

Approvement (n.) a confession of guilt by a prisoner charged with treason or felony, together with an accusation of his accomplish and a giving evidence against them in order to obtain his own pardon. The term is no longer in use; it corresponded to what is now known as turning king's (or queen's) evidence in England, and state's evidence in the United States.

Approvement (n.) Improvement of common lands, by inclosing and converting them to the uses of husbandry for the advantage of the lord of the manor.

Approver (n.) One who approves. Formerly, one who made proof or trial.

Approver (n.) An informer; an accuser.

Approver (n.) One who confesses a crime and accuses another. See 1st Approvement, 2.

Approver (v. t.) A bailiff or steward; an agent.

Approving (a.) Expressing approbation; commending; as, an approving smile.

Approximate (a.) Approaching; proximate; nearly resembling.

Approximate (a.) Near correctness; nearly exact; not perfectly accurate; as, approximate results or values.

Approximated (imp. & p. p.) of Approximate

Approximating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Approximate

Approximate (v. t.) To carry or advance near; to cause to approach.

Approximate (v. t.) To come near to; to approach.

Approximate (v. i.) To draw; to approach.

Approximately (adv.) With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly.

Approximation (n.) The act of approximating; a drawing, advancing or being near; approach; also, the result of approximating.

Approximation (n.) An approach to a correct estimate, calculation, or conception, or to a given quantity, quality, etc.

Approximation (n.) A continual approach or coming nearer to a result; as, to solve an equation by approximation.

Approximation (n.) A value that is nearly but not exactly correct.

Approximative (a.) Approaching; approximate.

Approximator (n.) One who, or that which, approximates.

Appui (n.) A support or supporter; a stay; a prop.

Appulse (n.) A driving or running towards; approach; impulse; also, the act of striking against.

Appulse (n.) The near approach of one heavenly body to another, or to the meridian; a coming into conjunction; as, the appulse of the moon to a star, or of a star to the meridian.

Appulsion (n.) A driving or striking against; an appulse.

Appulsive (a.) Striking against; impinging; as, the appulsive influence of the planets.

Appulsively (adv.) By appulsion.

Appurtenance (n.) That which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage; an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; in common parlance and legal acceptation, something belonging to another thing as principal, and which passes as incident to it, as a right of way, or other easement to land; a right of common to pasture, an outhouse, barn, garden, or orchard, to a house or messuage. In a strict legal sense, land can never pass as an appurtenance to land.

Appurtenant (a.) Annexed or pertaining to some more important thing; accessory; incident; as, a right of way appurtenant to land or buildings.

Appurtenant (n.) Something which belongs or appertains to another thing; an appurtenance.

Apricate (v. t. & i.) To bask in the sun.

Aprication (n.) Basking in the sun.

Apricot (n.) A fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, and delicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnaeus) which bears this fruit. By cultivation it has been introduced throughout the temperate zone.

April (n.) The fourth month of the year.

April (n.) Fig.: With reference to April being the month in which vegetation begins to put forth, the variableness of its weather, etc.

A priori () Characterizing that kind of reasoning which deduces consequences from definitions formed, or principles assumed, or which infers effects from causes previously known; deductive or deductively. The reverse of a posteriori.

A priori () Applied to knowledge and conceptions assumed, or presupposed, as prior to experience, in order to make experience rational or possible.

Apriorism (n.) An a priori principle.

Apriority (n.) The quality of being innate in the mind, or prior to experience; a priori reasoning.

Aprocta (n. pl.) A group of Turbellaria in which there is no anal aperture.

Aproctous (a.) Without an anal office.

Apron (n.) An article of dress, of cloth, leather, or other stuff, worn on the fore part of the body, to keep the clothes clean, to defend them from injury, or as a covering. It is commonly tied at the waist by strings.

Apron (n.) Something which by its shape or use suggests an apron;

Apron (n.) The fat skin covering the belly of a goose or duck.

Apron (n.) A piece of leather, or other material, to be spread before a person riding on an outside seat of a vehicle, to defend him from the rain, snow, or dust; a boot.

Apron (n.) A leaden plate that covers the vent of a cannon.

Apron (n.) A piece of carved timber, just above the foremost end of the keel.

Apron (n.) A platform, or flooring of plank, at the entrance of a dock, against which the dock gates are shut.

Apron (n.) A flooring of plank before a dam to cause the water to make a gradual descent.

Apron (n.) The piece that holds the cutting tool of a planer.

Apron (n.) A strip of lead which leads the drip of a wall into a gutter; a flashing.

Apron (n.) The infolded abdomen of a crab.

Aproned (a.) Wearing an apron.

Apronfuls (pl. ) of Apronful

Apronful (n.) The quantity an apron can hold.

Apronless (a.) Without an apron.

Apron man () A man who wears an apron; a laboring man; a mechanic.

Apron string () The string of an apron.

Aprosos (a. & adv.) Opportunely or opportune; seasonably or seasonable.

Aprosos (a. & adv.) By the way; to the purpose; suitably to the place or subject; -- a word used to introduce an incidental observation, suited to the occasion, though not strictly belonging to the narration.

Apse (n.) A projecting part of a building, esp. of a church, having in the plan a polygonal or semicircular termination, and, most often, projecting from the east end. In early churches the Eastern apse was occupied by seats for the bishop and clergy.

Apse (n.) The bishop's seat or throne, in ancient churches.

Apse (n.) A reliquary, or case in which the relics of saints were kept.

Apsidal (a.) Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit.

Apsidal (a.) Of or pertaining to the apse of a church; as, the apsidal termination of the chancel.

Apsides (n. pl.) See Apsis.

Apsides (pl. ) of Apsis

Apsis (n.) One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite, which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body, corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to the apogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higher apsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, the line of apsides.

Apsis (n.) In a curve referred to polar coordinates, any point for which the radius vector is a maximum or minimum.

Apsis (n.) Same as Apse.

Apt (a.) Fit or fitted; suited; suitable; appropriate.

Apt (a.) Having an habitual tendency; habitually liable or likely; -- used of things.

Apt (a.) Inclined; disposed customarily; given; ready; -- used of persons.

Apt (a.) Ready; especially fitted or qualified (to do something); quick to learn; prompt; expert; as, a pupil apt to learn; an apt scholar.

Apt (v. t.) To fit; to suit; to adapt.

Aptable (a.) Capable of being adapted.

Aptate (v. t.) To make fit.

Aptera (n. pl.) Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnaen order of insects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders, centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in several distinct classes and orders.

Apteral (a.) Apterous.

Apteral (a.) Without lateral columns; -- applied to buildings which have no series of columns along their sides, but are either prostyle or amphiprostyle, and opposed to peripteral.

Apteran (n.) One of the Aptera.

Apteria (n. pl.) Naked spaces between the feathered areas of birds. See Pteryliae.

Apterous (a.) Destitute of wings; apteral; as, apterous insects.

Apterous (a.) Destitute of winglike membranous expansions, as a stem or petiole; -- opposed to alate.

Apteryges (n. pl.) An order of birds, including the genus Apteryx.

Apteryx (n.) A genus of New Zealand birds about the size of a hen, with only short rudiments of wings, armed with a claw and without a tail; the kiwi. It is allied to the gigantic extinct moas of the same country. Five species are known.

Aptitude (n.) A natural or acquired disposition or capacity for a particular purpose, or tendency to a particular action or effect; as, oil has an aptitude to burn.

Aptitude (n.) A general fitness or suitableness; adaptation.

Aptitude (n.) Readiness in learning; docility; aptness.

Aptitudinal (a.) Suitable; fit.

Aptly (adv.) In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently; appropriately; readily.

Aptness (n.) Fitness; suitableness; appropriateness; as, the aptness of things to their end.

Aptness (n.) Disposition of the mind; propensity; as, the aptness of men to follow example.

Aptness (n.) Quickness of apprehension; readiness in learning; docility; as, an aptness to learn is more observable in some children than in others.

Aptness (n.) Proneness; tendency; as, the aptness of iron to rust.

Aptote (n.) A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun.

Aptotic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, aptotes; uninflected; as, aptotic languages.

Aptychus (n.) A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammonite shells. Some authors consider them to be jaws; others, opercula.

Apus (n.) A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod.

Apyretic (a.) Without fever; -- applied to days when there is an intermission of fever.

Apyrexia (n.) Alt. of Apyrexy

Apyrexy (n.) The absence or intermission of fever.

Apyrexial (a.) Relating to apyrexy.

Apyrous (a.) Incombustible; capable of sustaining a strong heat without alteration of form or properties.

Aqua (n.) Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry, in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed.

Aqua fortis () Nitric acid.

Aquamarine (n.) A transparent, pale green variety of beryl, used as a gem. See Beryl.

Aquapuncture (n.) The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief of pain.

Aquarelle (n.) A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also, the mode of painting in such colors.

Aquarellist (n.) A painter in thin transparent water colors.

Aquarial (a.) Alt. of Aquarian

Aquarian (a.) Of or pertaining to an aquarium.

Aquarian (n.) One of a sect of Christian in the primitive church who used water instead of wine in the Lord's Supper.

Aquariums (pl. ) of Aquarium

Aquaria (pl. ) of Aquarium

Aquarium (n.) An artificial pond, or a globe or tank (usually with glass sides), in which living specimens of aquatic animals or plants are kept.

Aquarius (n.) The Water-bearer; the eleventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun enters about the 20th of January; -- so called from the rains which prevail at that season in Italy and the East.

Aquarius (n.) A constellation south of Pegasus.

Aquatic (a.) Pertaining to water; growing in water; living in, swimming in, or frequenting the margins of waters; as, aquatic plants and fowls.

Aquatic (n.) An aquatic animal or plant.

Aquatic (n.) Sports or exercises practiced in or on the water.

Aquatical (a.) Aquatic.

Aquatile (a.) Inhabiting the water.

Aquatint (n.) Alt. of Aquatinta

Aquatinta (n.) A kind of etching in which spaces are bitten by the use of aqua fortis, by which an effect is produced resembling a drawing in water colors or India ink; also, the engraving produced by this method.

Aqueduct (n.) A conductor, conduit, or artificial channel for conveying water, especially one for supplying large cities with water.

Aqueduct (n.) A canal or passage; as, the aqueduct of Sylvius, a channel connecting the third and fourth ventricles of the brain.

Aqueity (n.) Wateriness.

Aqueous (a.) Partaking of the nature of water, or abounding with it; watery.

Aqueous (a.) Made from, or by means of, water.

Aqueousness (n.) Wateriness.

Aquiferous (a.) Consisting or conveying water or a watery fluid; as, aquiferous vessels; the aquiferous system.

Aquiform (a.) Having the form of water.

Aquilae (pl. ) of Aquila

Aquila (n.) A genus of eagles.

Aquila (n.) A northern constellation southerly from Lyra and Cygnus and preceding the Dolphin; the Eagle.

Aquilated (a.) Adorned with eagles' heads.

Aquiline (a.) Belonging to or like an eagle.

Aquiline (a.) Curving; hooked; prominent, like the beak of an eagle; -- applied particularly to the nose

Aquilon (n.) The north wind.

Aquiparous (a.) Secreting water; -- applied to certain glands.

Aquitanian (a.) Of or pertaining to Aquitania, now called Gascony.

Aquose (a.) Watery; aqueous.

Aquosity (n.) The condition of being wet or watery; wateriness.

Ar (conj.) Ere; before.

Ara (n.) The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of the Scorpion.

Ara (n.) A name of the great blue and yellow macaw (Ara ararauna), native of South America.

Arab (n.) One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria, Northern Africa, etc.

Arabesque (n.) A style of ornamentation either painted, inlaid, or carved in low relief. It consists of a pattern in which plants, fruits, foliage, etc., as well as figures of men and animals, real or imaginary, are fantastically interlaced or put together.

Arabesque (a.) Arabian.

Arabesque (a.) Relating to, or exhibiting, the style of ornament called arabesque; as, arabesque frescoes.

Arabesqued (a.) Ornamented in the style of arabesques.

Arabian (a.) Of or pertaining to Arabia or its inhabitants.

Arabian (n.) A native of Arabia; an Arab.

Arabic (a.) Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians.

Arabic (n.) The language of the Arabians.

Arabical (a.) Relating to Arabia; Arabic.

Arabin (n.) A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gum arabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance.

Arabin (n.) Mucilage, especially that made of gum arabic.

Arabinose (n.) A sugar of the composition C5H10O5, obtained from cherry gum by boiling it with dilute sulphuric acid.

Arabism (n.) An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language.

Arabist (n.) One well versed in the Arabic language or literature; also, formerly, one who followed the Arabic system of surgery.

Arable (a.) Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to land which has been plowed or tilled.

Arable (n.) Arable land; plow land.

Araby (n.) The country of Arabia.

Aracanese (a.) Of or pertaining to Aracan, a province of British Burmah.

Aracanese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Aracan.

Aracari (n.) A South American bird, of the genus Pleroglossius, allied to the toucans. There are several species.

Arace (v. t.) To tear up by the roots; to draw away.

Araceous (a.) Of or pertaining to an order of plants, of which the genus Arum is the type.

Arachnid (n.) An arachnidan.

Arachnida (n. pl.) One of the classes of Arthropoda. See Illustration in Appendix.

Arachnidan (n.) One of the Arachnida.

Arachnidial (a.) Of or pertaining to the Arachnida.

Arachnidial (a.) Pertaining to the arachnidium.

Arachnidium (n.) The glandular organ in which the material for the web of spiders is secreted.

Arachnitis (n.) Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane.

Arachnoid (a.) Resembling a spider's web; cobweblike.

Arachnoid (a.) Pertaining to a thin membrane of the brain and spinal cord, between the dura mater and pia mater.

Arachnoid (a.) Covered with, or composed of, soft, loose hairs or fibers, so as to resemble a cobweb; cobwebby.

Arachnoid (n.) The arachnoid membrane.

Arachnoid (n.) One of the Arachnoidea.

Arachnoidal (a.) Pertaining to the arachnoid membrane; arachnoid.

Arachnoidea (n. pl.) Same as Arachnida.

Arachnological (a.) Of or pertaining to arachnology.

Arachnologist (n.) One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology.

Arachnology (n.) The department of zoology which treats of spiders and other Arachnida.

Araeometer () See Areometer.

Araeostyle (a. & n.) See Intercolumniation.

Araeosystyle (a. & n.) See Intercolumniation.

Aragonese (a.) Of or pertaining to Aragon, in Spain, or to its inhabitants.

Aragonese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Aragon, in Spain.

Aragonite (n.) A mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate of lime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of its physical characters.

Araguato (n.) A South American monkey, the ursine howler (Mycetes ursinus). See Howler, n., 2.

Araise (v. t.) To raise.

Arak (n.) Same as Arrack.

Aramaean (a.) Alt. of Aramean

Aramean (a.) Of or pertaining to the Syrians and Chaldeans, or to their language; Aramaic.

Aramean (n.) A native of Aram.

Aramaic (a.) Pertaining to Aram, or to the territory, inhabitants, language, or literature of Syria and Mesopotamia; Aramaean; -- specifically applied to the northern branch of the Semitic family of languages, including Syriac and Chaldee.

Aramaic (n.) The Aramaic language.

Aramaism (n.) An idiom of the Aramaic.

Araneida (n. pl.) Alt. of Araneoidea

Araneoidea (n. pl.) See Araneina.

Araneidan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders.

Araneidan (n.) One of the Araneina; a spider.

Araneiform (a.) Having the form of a spider.

Araneina (n. pl.) The order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.

Araneose (a.) Of the aspect of a spider's web; arachnoid.

Araneous (a.) Cobweblike; extremely thin and delicate, like a cobweb; as, the araneous membrane of the eye. See Arachnoid.

Arangoes (pl. ) of Arango

Arango (n.) A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported from Bombay for use in the African slave trade.

Arapaima (n.) A large fresh-water food fish of South America.

Arara (n.) The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossus aterrimus).

Aration (n.) Plowing; tillage.

Aratory (a.) Contributing to tillage.

Araucaria (n.) A genus of tall conifers of the pine family. The species are confined mostly to South America and Australia. The wood cells differ from those of other in having the dots in their lateral surfaces in two or three rows, and the dots of contiguous rows alternating. The seeds are edible.

Araucarian (a.) Relating to, or of the nature of, the Araucaria. The earliest conifers in geological history were mostly Araucarian.

Arbalest (n.) Alt. of Arbalist

Arbalist (n.) A crossbow, consisting of a steel bow set in a shaft of wood, furnished with a string and a trigger, and a mechanical device for bending the bow. It served to throw arrows, darts, bullets, etc.

Arbalester (n.) Alt. of Arbalister

Arbalister (n.) A crossbowman.

Arbiter (n.) A person appointed, or chosen, by parties to determine a controversy between them.

Arbiter (n.) Any person who has the power of judging and determining, or ordaining, without control; one whose power of deciding and governing is not limited.

Arbiter (v. t.) To act as arbiter between.

Arbitrable (v. t.) Capable of being decided by arbitration; determinable.

Arbitrage (n.) Judgment by an arbiter; authoritative determination.

Arbitrage (n.) A traffic in bills of exchange (see Arbitration of Exchange); also, a traffic in stocks which bear differing values at the same time in different markets.

Arbitral (a.) Of or relating to an arbiter or an arbitration.

Arbitrament (n.) Determination; decision; arbitration.

Arbitrament (n.) The award of arbitrators.

Arbitrarily (adv.) In an arbitrary manner; by will only; despotically; absolutely.

Arbitrariness (n.) The quality of being arbitrary; despoticalness; tyranny.

Arbitrarious (a.) Arbitrary; despotic.

Arbitrary (a.) Depending on will or discretion; not governed by any fixed rules; as, an arbitrary decision; an arbitrary punishment.

Arbitrary (a.) Exercised according to one's own will or caprice, and therefore conveying a notion of a tendency to abuse the possession of power.

Arbitrary (a.) Despotic; absolute in power; bound by no law; harsh and unforbearing; tyrannical; as, an arbitrary prince or government.

Arbitrated (imp. & p. p.) of Arbitrate

Arbitrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arbitrate

Arbitrate (v. t.) To hear and decide, as arbitrators; as, to choose to arbitrate a disputed case.

Arbitrate (v. t.) To decide, or determine generally.

Arbitrate (v. i.) To decide; to determine.

Arbitrate (v. i.) To act as arbitrator or judge; as, to arbitrate upon several reports; to arbitrate in disputes among neighbors; to arbitrate between parties to a suit.

Arbitration (n.) The hearing and determination of a cause between parties in controversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.

Arbitrator (n.) A person, or one of two or more persons, chosen by parties who have a controversy, to determine their differences. See Arbitration.

Arbitrator (n.) One who has the power of deciding or prescribing without control; a ruler; a governor.

Arbitratrix (n.) A female who arbitrates or judges.

Arbitress (n.) A female arbiter; an arbitratrix.

Arblast (n.) A crossbow. See Arbalest.

Arbor (n.) A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines, branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower.

Arbor (n.) A tree, as distinguished from a shrub.

Arbor (n.) An axle or spindle of a wheel or opinion.

Arbor (n.) A mandrel in lathe turning.

Arborary (a.) Of or pertaining to trees; arboreal.

Arborator (n.) One who plants or who prunes trees.

Arbor Dianae () A precipitation of silver, in a beautiful arborescent form.

Arboreal (a.) Of or pertaining to a tree, or to trees; of nature of trees.

Arboreal (a.) Attached to, found in or upon, or frequenting, woods or trees; as, arboreal animals.

Arbored (a.) Furnished with an arbor; lined with trees.

Arboreous (a.) Having the form, constitution, or habits, of a proper tree, in distinction from a shrub.

Arboreous (a.) Pertaining to, or growing on, trees; as, arboreous moss.

Arborescence (n.) The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree in minerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form; as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver.

Arborescent (a.) Resembling a tree; becoming woody in stalk; dendritic; having crystallizations disposed like the branches and twigs of a tree.

Arboret (n.) A small tree or shrub.

Arboreta (pl. ) of Arboretum

Arboretum (n.) A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs is cultivated for scientific or educational purposes.

Arborical (a.) Relating to trees.

Arboricole (a.) Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds.

Arboricultural (a.) Pertaining to arboriculture.

Arboriculture (n.) The cultivation of trees and shrubs, chiefly for timber or for ornamental purposes.

Arboriculturist (n.) One who cultivates trees.

Arboriform (a.) Treelike in shape.

Arborist (n.) One who makes trees his study, or who is versed in the knowledge of trees.

Arborization (n.) The appearance or figure of a tree or plant, as in minerals or fossils; a dendrite.

Arborized (a.) Having a treelike appearance.

Arborous (a.) Formed by trees.

Arbor vine () A species of bindweed.

Arbor vitae () An evergreen tree of the cypress tribe, genus Thuja. The American species is the T. occidentalis.

Arbor vitae () The treelike disposition of the gray and white nerve tissues in the cerebellum, as seen in a vertical section.

Arbuscle (n.) A dwarf tree, one in size between a shrub and a tree; a treelike shrub.

Arbuscular (a.) Of or pertaining to a dwarf tree; shrublike.

Arbustive (a.) Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs.

Arbutus (n.) Alt. of Arbute

Arbute (n.) The strawberry tree, a genus of evergreen shrubs, of the Heath family. It has a berry externally resembling the strawberry; the arbute tree.

Arc (n.) A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of an ellipse.

Arc (n.) A curvature in the shape of a circular arc or an arch; as, the colored arc (the rainbow); the arc of Hadley's quadrant.

Arc (n.) An arch.

Arc (n.) The apparent arc described, above or below the horizon, by the sun or other celestial body. The diurnal arc is described during the daytime, the nocturnal arc during the night.

Arcade (n.) A series of arches with the columns or piers which support them, the spandrels above, and other necessary appurtenances; sometimes open, serving as an entrance or to give light; sometimes closed at the back (as in the cut) and forming a decorative feature.

Arcade (n.) A long, arched building or gallery.

Arcade (n.) An arched or covered passageway or avenue.

Arcaded (a.) Furnished with an arcade.

Arcadia (n.) A mountainous and picturesque district of Greece, in the heart of the Peloponnesus, whose people were distinguished for contentment and rural happiness.

Arcadia (n.) Fig.: Any region or scene of simple pleasure and untroubled quiet.

Arcadian (a.) Alt. of Arcadic

Arcadic (a.) Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as, Arcadian simplicity or scenery.

Arcane (a.) Hidden; secret.

Arcana (pl. ) of Arcanum

Arcanum (n.) A secret; a mystery; -- generally used in the plural.

Arcanum (n.) A secret remedy; an elixir.

Arcboutant (n.) A flying buttress.

Arch (n.) Any part of a curved line.

Arch (n.) Usually a curved member made up of separate wedge-shaped solids, with the joints between them disposed in the direction of the radii of the curve; used to support the wall or other weight above an opening. In this sense arches are segmental, round (i. e., semicircular), or pointed.

Arch (n.) A flat arch is a member constructed of stones cut into wedges or other shapes so as to support each other without rising in a curve.

Arch (n.) Any place covered by an arch; an archway; as, to pass into the arch of a bridge.

Arch (n.) Any curvature in the form of an arch; as, the arch of the aorta.

Arched (imp. & p. p.) of Arch

Arching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arch

Arch (v. t.) To cover with an arch or arches.

Arch (v. t.) To form or bend into the shape of an arch.

Arch (v. i.) To form into an arch; to curve.

Arch- () A prefix signifying chief, as in archbuilder, archfiend.

Arch (a.) Chief; eminent; greatest; principal.

Arch (a.) Cunning or sly; sportively mischievous; roguish; as, an arch look, word, lad.

Arch (n.) A chief.

-arch (a.) A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).

Archaean (a.) Ancient; pertaining to the earliest period in geological history.

Archaean (n.) The earliest period in geological period, extending up to the Lower Silurian. It includes an Azoic age, previous to the appearance of life, and an Eozoic age, including the earliest forms of life.

Archaeography (n.) A description of, or a treatise on, antiquity or antiquities.

Archaeolithic (a.) Of or pertaining to the earliest Stone age; -- applied to a prehistoric period preceding the Paleolithic age.

Archaeologian (n.) An archaeologist.

Archaeologic () Alt. of Archaeological

Archaeological () Relating to archaeology, or antiquities; as, archaeological researches.

Archaeologist (n.) One versed in archaeology; an antiquary.

Archaeology (n.) The science or study of antiquities, esp. prehistoric antiquities, such as the remains of buildings or monuments of an early epoch, inscriptions, implements, and other relics, written manuscripts, etc.

Archaeopteryx (n.) A fossil bird, of the Jurassic period, remarkable for having a long tapering tail of many vertebrae with feathers along each side, and jaws armed with teeth, with other reptilian characteristics.

Archaeostomatous (a.) Applied to a gastrula when the blastopore does not entirely close up.

Archaeozoic (a.) Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life.

Archaic (a.) Of or characterized by antiquity or archaism; antiquated; obsolescent.

Archaical (a.) Archaic.

Archaism (a.) An ancient, antiquated, or old-fashioned, word, expression, or idiom; a word or form of speech no longer in common use.

Archaism (a.) Antiquity of style or use; obsoleteness.

Archaist (n.) Am antiquary.

Archaist (n.) One who uses archaisms.

Archaistic (a.) Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to an archaism.

Archaized (imp. & p. p.) of Archaize

Archaizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Archaize

Archaize (v. t.) To make appear archaic or antique.

Archangel (n.) A chief angel; one high in the celestial hierarchy.

Archangel (n.) A term applied to several different species of plants (Angelica archangelica, Lamium album, etc.).

Archangelic (a.) Of or pertaining to archangels; of the nature of, or resembling, an archangel.

Archbishop (n.) A chief bishop; a church dignitary of the first class (often called a metropolitan or primate) who superintends the conduct of the suffragan bishops in his province, and also exercises episcopal authority in his own diocese.

Archbishopric (n.) The jurisdiction or office of an archbishop; the see or province over which archbishop exercises archiepiscopal authority.

Arch brick () A wedge-shaped brick used in the building of an arch.

Archbutler (n.) A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire.

Archchamberlain (n.) A chief chamberlain; -- an officer of the old German empire, whose office was similar to that of the great chamberlain in England.

Archchancellor (n.) A chief chancellor; -- an officer in the old German empire, who presided over the secretaries of the court.

Archchemic (a.) Of supreme chemical powers.

Archdeacon (n.) In England, an ecclesiastical dignitary, next in rank below a bishop, whom he assists, and by whom he is appointed, though with independent authority.

Archdeaconry (n.) The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. See Benefice.

Archdeaconship (n.) The office of an archdeacon.

Archdiocese (n.) The diocese of an archbishop.

Archducal (a.) Of or pertaining to an archduke or archduchy.

Archduchess (n.) The consort of an archduke; also, a princess of the imperial family of Austria. See Archduke.

Archduchy (n.) The territory of an archduke or archduchess.

Archduke (n.) A prince of the imperial family of Austria.

Archdukedom (n.) An archduchy.

Archebiosis (n.) The origination of living matter from non-living. See Abiogenesis.

Arched (a.) Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an arched door.

Archegonial (a.) Relating to the archegonium.

Archegonium (n.) The pistillidium or female organ in the higher cryptogamic plants, corresponding to the pistil in flowering plants.

Archegony (n.) Spontaneous generation; abiogenesis.

Archelogy (n.) The science of, or a treatise on, first principles.

Archencephala (n. pl.) The division that includes man alone.

Archenemy (n.) A principal enemy. Specifically, Satan, the grand adversary of mankind.

Archenteric (a.) Relating to the archenteron; as, archenteric invagination.

Archenteron (n.) The primitive enteron or undifferentiated digestive sac of a gastrula or other embryo. See Illust. under Invagination.

Archeology (a.) Alt. of Archeological

Archeological (a.) Same as Archaeology, etc.

Archer (n.) A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow.

Archeress (n.) A female archer.

Archer fish () A small fish (Toxotes jaculator), of the East Indies; -- so called from its ejecting drops of water from its mouth at its prey. The name is also applied to Chaetodon rostratus.

Archership (n.) The art or skill of an archer.

Archery (n.) The use of the bow and arrows in battle, hunting, etc.; the art, practice, or skill of shooting with a bow and arrows.

Archery (n.) Archers, or bowmen, collectively.

Arches () pl. of Arch, n.

Archetypal (a.) Of or pertaining to an archetype; consisting a model (real or ideal) or pattern; original.

Archetypally (adv.) With reference to the archetype; originally. Parts archetypally distinct.

Archetype (n.) The original pattern or model of a work; or the model from which a thing is made or formed.

Archetype (n.) The standard weight or coin by which others are adjusted.

Archetype (n.) The plan or fundamental structure on which a natural group of animals or plants or their systems of organs are assumed to have been constructed; as, the vertebrate archetype.

Archetypical (a.) Relating to an archetype; archetypal.

Archeus (n.) The vital principle or force which (according to the Paracelsians) presides over the growth and continuation of living beings; the anima mundi or plastic power of the old philosophers.

Archi- () A prefix signifying chief, arch; as, architect, archiepiscopal. In Biol. and Anat. it usually means primitive, original, ancestral; as, archipterygium, the primitive fin or wing.

Archiannelida (n. pl.) A group of Annelida remarkable for having no external segments or distinct ventral nerve ganglions.

Archiater (n.) Chief physician; -- a term applied, on the continent of Europe, to the first or body physician of princes and to the first physician of some cities.

Archiblastula (n.) A hollow blastula, supposed to be the primitive form; a c/loblastula.

Archical (pref.) Chief; primary; primordial.

Archidiaconal (a.) Of or pertaining to an archdeacon.

Archiepiscopacy (n.) That form of episcopacy in which the chief power is in the hands of archbishops.

Archiepiscopacy (n.) The state or dignity of an archbishop.

Archiepiscopal (a.) Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is an archiepiscopal see.

Archiepiscopality (n.) The station or dignity of an archbishop; archiepiscopacy.

Archiepiscopate (n.) The office of an archbishop; an archbishopric.

Archierey (n.) The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans, archbishops, and bishops.

Archil (n.) A violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), which grow on maritime rocks in the Canary and Cape Verd Islands, etc.

Archil (n.) The plant from which the dye is obtained.

Archilochian (a.) Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as, Archilochian meter.

Archimage (n.) Alt. of Archimagus

Archimagus (n.) The high priest of the Persian Magi, or worshipers of fire.

Archimagus (n.) A great magician, wizard, or enchanter.

Archimandrite (n.) A chief of a monastery, corresponding to abbot in the Roman Catholic church.

Archimandrite (n.) A superintendent of several monasteries, corresponding to superior abbot, or father provincial, in the Roman Catholic church.

Archimedean (a.) Of or pertaining to Archimedes, a celebrated Greek philosopher; constructed on the principle of Archimedes' screw; as, Archimedean drill, propeller, etc.

Archimedes (n.) An extinct genus of Bryzoa characteristic of the subcarboniferous rocks. Its form is that of a screw.

Arching (n.) The arched part of a structure.

Arching (n.) Hogging; -- opposed to sagging.

Archipelagic (a.) Of or pertaining to an archipelago.

-goes (pl. ) of Archipelago

-gos (pl. ) of Archipelago

Archipelago (n.) The Grecian Archipelago, or Aegean Sea, separating Greece from Asia Minor. It is studded with a vast number of small islands.

Archipelago (n.) Hence: Any sea or broad sheet of water interspersed with many islands or with a group of islands.

Archipterygium (n.) The primitive form of fin, like that of Ceratodus.

Architect (n.) A person skilled in the art of building; one who understands architecture, or makes it his occupation to form plans and designs of buildings, and to superintend the artificers employed.

Architect (n.) A contriver, designer, or maker.

Architective (a.) Used in building; proper for building.

Architectonic (a.) Alt. of Architectonical

Architectonical (a.) Pertaining to a master builder, or to architecture; evincing skill in designing or construction; constructive.

Architectonical (a.) Relating to the systemizing of knowledge.

Architectonic (n.) The science of architecture.

Architectonic (n.) The act of arranging knowledge into a system.

Architectonics (n.) The science of architecture.

Architector (n.) An architect.

Architectress (n.) A female architect.

Architectural (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of building; conformed to the rules of architecture.

Architecture (n.) The art or science of building; especially, the art of building houses, churches, bridges, and other structures, for the purposes of civil life; -- often called civil architecture.

Architecture (n.) Construction, in a more general sense; frame or structure; workmanship.

Architeuthis (n.) A genus of gigantic cephalopods, allied to the squids, found esp. in the North Atlantic and about New Zealand.

Architrave (n.) The lower division of an entablature, or that part which rests immediately on the column, esp. in classical architecture. See Column.

Architrave (n.) The group of moldings, or other architectural member, above and on both sides of a door or other opening, especially if square in form.

Architraved (a.) Furnished with an architrave.

Archival (a.) Pertaining to, or contained in, archives or records.

Archives (pl. ) of Archive

Archive (n.) The place in which public records or historic documents are kept.

Archive (n.) Public records or documents preserved as evidence of facts; as, the archives of a country or family.

Archivist (n.) A keeper of archives or records.

Archivolt (n.) The architectural member surrounding the curved opening of an arch, corresponding to the architrave in the case of a square opening.

Archivolt (n.) More commonly, the molding or other ornaments with which the wall face of the voussoirs of an arch is charged.

Archlute (n.) Alt. of Archilute

Archilute (n.) A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, having the bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings with a unison.

Archly (adv.) In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness; slyly; waggishly.

Archmarshal (n.) The grand marshal of the old German empire, a dignity that to the Elector of Saxony.

Archness (n.) The quality of being arch; cleverness; sly humor free from malice; waggishness.

Archon (n.) One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, by preeminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates.

Archonship (n.) The office of an archon.

Archontate (n.) An archon's term of office.

Archonts (p. pr.) The group including man alone.

Archprelate (n.) An archbishop or other chief prelate.

Archpresbyter (n.) Same as Archpriest.

Archpresbytery (n.) The absolute dominion of presbytery.

Archpriest (n.) A chief priest; also, a kind of vicar, or a rural dean.

Archprimate (n.) The chief primate.

Arch stone () A wedge-shaped stone used in an arch; a voussoir.

Archtraitor (n.) A chief or transcendent traitor.

Archtreasurer (n.) A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of the German empire.

Archway (n.) A way or passage under an arch.

Archwife (n.) A big, masculine wife.

Archwise (adv.) Arch-shaped.

Archy (a.) Arched; as, archy brows.

archy () A suffix properly meaning a rule, ruling, as in monarchy, the rule of one only. Cf. -arch.

Arciform (a.) Having the form of an arch; curved.

Arcograph (n.) An instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of a central point; a cyclograph.

Arctation (n.) Constriction or contraction of some natural passage, as in constipation from inflammation.

Arctic (a.) Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellation called the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle, region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature.

Arctic (n.) The arctic circle.

Arctic (n.) A warm waterproof overshoe.

Arctisca (n. pl.) A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix.

Arctogeal (a.) Of or pertaining to arctic lands; as, the arctogeal fauna.

Arctoidea (n. pl.) A group of the Carnivora, that includes the bears, weasels, etc.

Arcturus (n.) A fixed star of the first magnitude in the constellation Bootes.

Arcual (a.) Of or pertaining to an arc.

Arcuate (a.) Alt. of Arcuated

Arcuated (a.) Bent or curved in the form of a bow.

Arcuately (adv.) In the form of a bow.

Arcuation (n.) The act of bending or curving; incurvation; the state of being bent; crookedness.

Arcuation (n.) A mode of propagating trees by bending branches to the ground, and covering the small shoots with earth; layering.

Arcubalist (n.) A crossbow.

Arcubalister (n.) A crossbowman; one who used the arcubalist.

Arcubus (n.) See Arquebus.

-ard () Alt. of -art

-art () The termination of many English words; as, coward, reynard, drunkard, mostly from the French, in which language this ending is of German origin, being orig. the same word as English hard. It usually has the sense of one who has to a high or excessive degree the quality expressed by the root; as, braggart, sluggard.

Ardassine (n.) A very fine sort of Persian silk.

Ardency (n.) Heat.

Ardency (n.) Warmth of passion or affection; ardor; vehemence; eagerness; as, the ardency of love or zeal.

Ardent (a.) Hot or burning; causing a sensation of burning; fiery; as, ardent spirits, that is, distilled liquors; an ardent fever.

Ardent (a.) Having the appearance or quality of fire; fierce; glowing; shining; as, ardent eyes.

Ardent (a.) Warm, applied to the passions and affections; passionate; fervent; zealous; vehement; as, ardent love, feelings, zeal, hope, temper.

Ardently (adv.) In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately; passionately.

Ardentness (n.) Ardency.

Ardor (n.) Heat, in a literal sense; as, the ardor of the sun's rays.

Ardor (n.) Warmth or heat of passion or affection; eagerness; zeal; as, he pursues study with ardor; the fought with ardor; martial ardor.

Ardor (n.) Bright and effulgent spirits; seraphim.

Arduous (a.) Steep and lofty, in a literal sense; hard to climb.

Arduous (a.) Attended with great labor, like the ascending of acclivities; difficult; laborious; as, an arduous employment, task, or enterprise.

Arduously (adv.) In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness.

Arduousness (n.) The quality of being arduous; difficulty of execution.

Ardurous (a.) Burning; ardent.

Are () The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be; but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are, and is, all come from the root as.

Are (n.) The unit of superficial measure, being a square of which each side is ten meters in length; 100 square meters, or about 119.6 square yards.

Areas (pl. ) of Area

Area (n.) Any plane surface, as of the floor of a room or church, or of the ground within an inclosure; an open space in a building.

Area (n.) The inclosed space on which a building stands.

Area (n.) The sunken space or court, giving ingress and affording light to the basement of a building.

Area (n.) An extent of surface; a tract of the earth's surface; a region; as, vast uncultivated areas.

Area (n.) The superficial contents of any figure; the surface included within any given lines; superficial extent; as, the area of a square or a triangle.

Area (n.) A spot or small marked space; as, the germinative area.

Area (n.) Extent; scope; range; as, a wide area of thought.

Aread (v. t.) Alt. of Areed

Areed (v. t.) To tell, declare, explain, or interpret; to divine; to guess; as, to aread a riddle or a dream.

Areed (v. t.) To read.

Areed (v. t.) To counsel, advise, warn, or direct.

Areed (v. t.) To decree; to adjudge.

Areal (a.) Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areas or spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves).

Arear (v. t. & i.) To raise; to set up; to stir up.

Arear (adv.) Backward; in or to the rear; behindhand.

Areca (n.) A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut, or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the Piper Betle and lime.

Areek (adv. & a.) In a reeking condition.

Arefaction (n.) The act of drying, or the state of growing dry.

Arefy (v. t.) To dry, or make dry.

Arenas (pl. ) of Arena

Arenae (pl. ) of Arena

Arena (n.) The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which the gladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so called because it was covered with sand.

Arena (n.) Any place of public contest or exertion; any sphere of action; as, the arenaof debate; the arena of life.

Arena (n.) Sand or gravel in the kidneys.

Arenaceous (a.) Sandy or consisting largely of sand; of the nature of sand; easily disintegrating into sand; friable; as, arenaceous limestone.

Arenarious (a.) Sandy; as, arenarious soil.

Arenation (n.) A sand bath; application of hot sand to the body.

Arendator (n.) In some provinces of Russia, one who farms the rents or revenues.

Areng (n.) Alt. of Arenga

Arenga (n.) A palm tree (Saguerus saccharifer) which furnishes sago, wine, and fibers for ropes; the gomuti palm.

Arenicolite (n.) An ancient wormhole in sand, preserved in the rocks.

Arenilitic (a.) Of or pertaining to sandstone; as, arenilitic mountains.

Arenose (a.) Sandy; full of sand.

Arenulous (a.) Full of fine sand; like sand.

Areolae (pl. ) of Areola

Areola (n.) An interstice or small space, as between the cracks of the surface in certain crustaceous lichens; or as between the fibers composing organs or vessels that interlace; or as between the nervures of an insect's wing.

Areola (n.) The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle or pustule.

Areolar (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an areola; filled with interstices or areolae.

Areolate (a.) Alt. of Areolated

Areolated (a.) Divided into small spaces or areolations, as the wings of insects, the leaves of plants, or the receptacle of compound flowers.

Areolation (n.) Division into areolae.

Areolation (n.) Any small space, bounded by some part different in color or structure, as the spaces bounded by the nervures of the wings of insects, or those by the veins of leaves; an areola.

Areole (n.) Same as Areola.

Areolet (n.) A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on the wings of insects, circumscribed by the veins.

Areometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; a form hydrometer.

Areometric (a.) Alt. of Areometrical

Areometrical (a.) Pertaining to, or measured by, an areometer.

Areometry (n.) The art or process of measuring the specific gravity of fluids.

Areopagist (n.) See Areopagite.

Areopagite (n.) A member of the Areopagus.

Areopagitic (a.) Pertaining to the Areopagus.

Areopagus (n.) The highest judicial court at Athens. Its sessions were held on Mars' Hill. Hence, any high court or tribunal

Areostyle (a. & n.) See Intercolumniation, and Araeostyle.

Areosystyle (a. & n.) See Intercolumniation, and Araeosystyle.

Arere (v. t. & i.) See Arear.

Arest (n.) A support for the spear when couched for the attack.

Aret (v. t.) To reckon; to ascribe; to impute.

Aretaics (n.) The ethical theory which excludes all relations between virtue and happiness; the science of virtue; -- contrasted with eudemonics.

Aretology (n.) That part of moral philosophy which treats of virtue, its nature, and the means of attaining to it.

Arew (adv.) In a row.

Argal (n.) Crude tartar. See Argol.

Argal (adv.) A ludicrous corruption of the Latin word ergo, therefore.

Argal (n.) Alt. of Argali

Argali (n.) A species of wild sheep (Ovis ammon, or O. argali), remarkable for its large horns. It inhabits the mountains of Siberia and central Asia.

Argala (n.) The adjutant bird.

Argand lamp () A lamp with a circular hollow wick and glass chimney which allow a current of air both inside and outside of the flame.

Argas (n.) A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. The famous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that of Central America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje.

Argean (a.) Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.

Argent (n.) Silver, or money.

Argent (n.) Whiteness; anything that is white.

Argent (n.) The white color in coats of arms, intended to represent silver, or, figuratively, purity, innocence, beauty, or gentleness; -- represented in engraving by a plain white surface.

Argent (a.) Made of silver; of a silvery color; white; shining.

Argental (a.) Of or pertaining to silver; resembling, containing, or combined with, silver.

Argentan (n.) An alloy of nickel with copper and zinc; German silver.

Argentate (a.) Silvery white.

Argentation (n.) A coating or overlaying with silver.

Argentic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, silver; -- said of certain compounds of silver in which this metal has its lowest proportion; as, argentic chloride.

Argentiferous (a.) Producing or containing silver; as, argentiferous lead ore or veins.

Argentine (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, silver; made of, or sounding like, silver; silvery.

Argentine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Argentine Republic in South America.

Argentine (n.) A siliceous variety of calcite, or carbonate of lime, having a silvery-white, pearly luster, and a waving or curved lamellar structure.

Argentine (n.) White metal coated with silver.

Argentine (n.) A fish of Europe (Maurolicus Pennantii) with silvery scales. The name is also applied to various fishes of the genus Argentina.

Argentine (n.) A citizen of the Argentine Republic.

Argentite (n.) Sulphide of silver; -- also called vitreous silver, or silver glance. It has a metallic luster, a lead-gray color, and is sectile like lead.

Argentous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, silver; -- said of certain silver compounds in which silver has a higher proportion than in argentic compounds; as, argentous chloride.

Argentry (n.) Silver plate or vessels.

Argil (n.) Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. See Clay.

Argillaceous (a.) Of the nature of clay; consisting of, or containing, argil or clay; clayey.

Argilliferous (a.) Producing clay; -- applied to such earths as abound with argil.

Argillite (n.) Argillaceous schist or slate; clay slate. Its colors is bluish or blackish gray, sometimes greenish gray, brownish red, etc.

Argillo-areenaceous (a.) Consisting of, or containing, clay and sand, as a soil.

Argillo-calcareous (a.) Consisting of, or containing, clay and calcareous earth.

Argillo-ferruginous (a.) Containing clay and iron.

Argillous (a.) Argillaceous; clayey.

Argive (a.) Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece.

Argive (n.) A native of Argos. Often used as a generic term, equivalent to Grecian or Greek.

Argo (n.) The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-four companions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece.

Argo (n.) A large constellation in the southern hemisphere, called also Argo Navis. In modern astronomy it is replaced by its three divisions, Carina, Puppis, and Vela.

Argoan (a.) Pertaining to the ship Argo.

Argoile (n.) Potter's clay.

Argol (n.) Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is prepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited from wines on the sides of the casks.

Argolic (a.) Pertaining to Argolis, a district in the Peloponnesus.

Argon (n.) A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphere and remarkable for its chemical inertness.

Argonaut (n.) Any one of the legendary Greek heroes who sailed with Jason, in the Argo, in quest of the Golden Fleece.

Argonaut (n.) A cephalopod of the genus Argonauta.

Argonauta (n.) A genus of Cephalopoda. The shell is called paper nautilus or paper sailor.

Argonautic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Argonauts.

Argosies (pl. ) of Argosy

Argosy (n.) A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size.

Argot (n.) A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves, tramps, and vagabonds; flash.

Arguable (a.) Capable of being argued; admitting of debate.

Argued (imp. & p. p.) of Argue

Arguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Argue

Argue (v. i.) To invent and offer reasons to support or overthrow a proposition, opinion, or measure; to use arguments; to reason.

Argue (v. i.) To contend in argument; to dispute; to reason; -- followed by with; as, you may argue with your friend without convincing him.

Argue (v. t.) To debate or discuss; to treat by reasoning; as, the counsel argued the cause before a full court; the cause was well argued.

Argue (v. t.) To prove or evince; too manifest or exhibit by inference, deduction, or reasoning.

Argue (v. t.) To persuade by reasons; as, to argue a man into a different opinion.

Argue (v. t.) To blame; to accuse; to charge with.

Arguer (n.) One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant.

Argufy (v. t. & i.) To argue pertinaciously.

Argufy (v. t. & i.) To signify.

Argulus (n.) A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fish louse. See Branchiura.

Argument (n.) Proof; evidence.

Argument (n.) A reason or reasons offered in proof, to induce belief, or convince the mind; reasoning expressed in words; as, an argument about, concerning, or regarding a proposition, for or in favor of it, or against it.

Argument (n.) A process of reasoning, or a controversy made up of rational proofs; argumentation; discussion; disputation.

Argument (n.) The subject matter of a discourse, writing, or artistic representation; theme or topic; also, an abstract or summary, as of the contents of a book, chapter, poem.

Argument (n.) Matter for question; business in hand.

Argument (n.) The quantity on which another quantity in a table depends; as, the altitude is the argument of the refraction.

Argument (n.) The independent variable upon whose value that of a function depends.

Argument (v. i.) To make an argument; to argue.

Argumentable (a.) Admitting of argument.

Argumental (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, argument; argumentative.

Argumentation (n.) The act of forming reasons, making inductions, drawing conclusions, and applying them to the case in discussion; the operation of inferring propositions, not known or admitted as true, from facts or principles known, admitted, or proved to be true.

Argumentation (n.) Debate; discussion.

Argumentative (a.) Consisting of, or characterized by, argument; containing a process of reasoning; as, an argumentative discourse.

Argumentative (a.) Adductive as proof; indicative; as, the adaptation of things to their uses is argumentative of infinite wisdom in the Creator.

Argumentative (a.) Given to argument; characterized by argument; disputatious; as, an argumentative writer.

Argumentize (v. i.) To argue or discuss.

Argus (n.) A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes, who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to the peacock's tail.

Argus (n.) One very vigilant; a guardian always watchful.

Argus (n.) A genus of East Indian pheasants. The common species (A. giganteus) is remarkable for the great length and beauty of the wing and tail feathers of the male. The species A. Grayi inhabits Borneo.

Argus-eyed (a.) Extremely observant; watchful; sharp-sighted.

Argus shell () A species of shell (Cypraea argus), beautifully variegated with spots resembling those in a peacock's tail.

Argutation (n.) Caviling; subtle disputation.

Argute (a.) Sharp; shrill.

Argute (a.) Sagacious; acute; subtle; shrewd.

Argutely (adv.) In a subtle; shrewdly.

Arguteness (n.) Acuteness.

Arhizal (a.) Alt. of Arhythmous

Arhizous (a.) Alt. of Arhythmous

Arhythmic (a.) Alt. of Arhythmous

Arhythmous (a.) See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous.

Aria (n.) An air or song; a melody; a tune.

Arian (a. & n.) See Aryan.

Arian (a.) Pertaining to Arius, a presbyter of the church of Alexandria, in the fourth century, or to the doctrines of Arius, who held Christ to be inferior to God the Father in nature and dignity, though the first and noblest of all created beings.

Arian (n.) One who adheres to or believes the doctrines of Arius.

Arianism (n.) The doctrines of the Arians.

Arianize (v. i.) To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become an Arian.

Arianize (v. t.) To convert to Arianism.

Aricine (n.) An alkaloid, first found in white cinchona bark.

Arid (a.) Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren.

Aridities (pl. ) of Aridity

Aridity (n.) The state or quality of being arid or without moisture; dryness.

Aridity (n.) Fig.: Want of interest of feeling; insensibility; dryness of style or feeling; spiritual drought.

Aridness (n.) Aridity; dryness.

Ariel () Alt. of Ariel gazelle

Ariel gazelle () A variety of the gazelle (Antilope, / Gazella, dorcas), found in Arabia and adjacent countries.

Ariel gazelle () A squirrel-like Australian marsupial, a species of Petaurus.

Ariel gazelle () A beautiful Brazilian toucan Ramphastos ariel).

Aries (n.) The Ram; the first of the twelve signs in the zodiac, which the sun enters at the vernal equinox, about the 21st of March.

Aries (n.) A constellation west of Taurus, drawn on the celestial globe in the figure of a ram.

Aries (n.) A battering-ram.

Arietate (v. i.) To butt, as a ram.

Arietation (n.) The act of butting like a ram; act of using a battering-ram.

Arietation (n.) Act of striking or conflicting.

Arietta (n.) Alt. of Ariette

Ariette (n.) A short aria, or air.

Aright (adv.) Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake or crime; as, to worship God aright.

Aril (n.) Alt. of Arillus

Arillus (n.) A exterior covering, forming a false coat or appendage to a seed, as the loose, transparent bag inclosing the seed or the white water lily. The mace of the nutmeg is also an aril.

Arillate (a.) Alt. of Ariled

Arllated (a.) Alt. of Ariled

Ariled (a.) Having an aril.

Ariman (n.) See Ahriman.

Ariolation (n.) A soothsaying; a foretelling.

Ariose (a.) Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony.

Arioso (adv. & a.) In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose.

Arose (imp.) of Arise

Arising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arise

Arisen (p. p.) of Arise

Arise (v. i.) To come up from a lower to a higher position; to come above the horizon; to come up from one's bed or place of repose; to mount; to ascend; to rise; as, to arise from a kneeling posture; a cloud arose; the sun ariseth; he arose early in the morning.

Arise (v. i.) To spring up; to come into action, being, or notice; to become operative, sensible, or visible; to begin to act a part; to present itself; as, the waves of the sea arose; a persecution arose; the wrath of the king shall arise.

Arise (v. i.) To proceed; to issue; to spring.

Arise (n.) Rising.

Arist () 3d sing. pres. of Arise, for ariseth.

Arista (n.) An awn.

Aristarch (n.) A severe critic.

Aristarchian (a.) Severely critical.

Aristarchy (n.) Severely criticism.

Aristarchy (n.) Severe criticism.

Aristate (a.) Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat; awned.

Aristate (a.) Having a slender, sharp, or spinelike tip.

Aristocracies (pl. ) of Aristocracy

Aristocracy (n.) Government by the best citizens.

Aristocracy (n.) A ruling body composed of the best citizens.

Aristocracy (n.) A form a government, in which the supreme power is vested in the principal persons of a state, or in a privileged order; an oligarchy.

Aristocracy (n.) The nobles or chief persons in a state; a privileged class or patrician order; (in a popular use) those who are regarded as superior to the rest of the community, as in rank, fortune, or intellect.

Aristocrat (n.) One of the aristocracy or people of rank in a community; one of a ruling class; a noble.

Aristocrat (n.) One who is overbearing in his temper or habits; a proud or haughty person.

Aristocrat (n.) One who favors an aristocracy as a form of government, or believes the aristocracy should govern.

Aristocratic (a.) Alt. of Aristocratical

Aristocratical (a.) Of or pertaining to an aristocracy; consisting in, or favoring, a government of nobles, or principal men; as, an aristocratic constitution.

Aristocratical (a.) Partaking of aristocracy; befitting aristocracy; characteristic of, or originating with, the aristocracy; as, an aristocratic measure; aristocratic pride or manners.

Aristocratism (n.) The principles of aristocrats.

Aristocratism (n.) Aristocrats, collectively.

Aristology (n.) The science of dining.

Aristophanic (a.) Of or pertaining to Aristophanes, the Athenian comic poet.

Aristotelian (a.) Of or pertaining to Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher (384-322 b. c.).

Aristotelian (n.) A follower of Aristotle; a Peripatetic. See Peripatetic.

Aristotelianism () The philosophy of Aristotle, otherwise called the Peripatetic philosophy.

Aristotelic (a.) Pertaining to Aristotle or to his philosophy.

Aristotle's lantern () The five united jaws and accessory ossicles of certain sea urchins.

Aristulate (a.) Having a short beard or awn.

Arithmancy (n.) Divination by means of numbers.

Arithmetic (n.) The science of numbers; the art of computation by figures.

Arithmetic (n.) A book containing the principles of this science.

Arithmetical (a.) Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules or method of arithmetic.

Arithmetically (adv.) Conformably to the principles or methods of arithmetic.

Arithmetician (n.) One skilled in arithmetic.

Arithmomancy (n.) Arithmancy.

Arithmometer (n.) A calculating machine.

Ark (n.) A chest, or coffer.

Ark (n.) The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, which supported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied the most sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tables of stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of the Covenant.

Ark (n.) The large, chestlike vessel in which Noah and his family were preserved during the Deluge. Gen. vi. Hence: Any place of refuge.

Ark (n.) A large flatboat used on Western American rivers to transport produce to market.

Arkite (a.) Belonging to the ark.

Ark shell () A marine bivalve shell belonging to the genus Arca and its allies.

Arles (n. pl.) An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain.

Arm (n.) The limb of the human body which extends from the shoulder to the hand; also, the corresponding limb of a monkey.

Arm (n.) Anything resembling an arm

Arm (n.) The fore limb of an animal, as of a bear.

Arm (n.) A limb, or locomotive or prehensile organ, of an invertebrate animal.

Arm (n.) A branch of a tree.

Arm (n.) A slender part of an instrument or machine, projecting from a trunk, axis, or fulcrum; as, the arm of a steelyard.

Arm (n.) The end of a yard; also, the part of an anchor which ends in the fluke.

Arm (n.) An inlet of water from the sea.

Arm (n.) A support for the elbow, at the side of a chair, the end of a sofa, etc.

Arm (n.) Fig.: Power; might; strength; support; as, the secular arm; the arm of the law.

Arm (n.) A branch of the military service; as, the cavalry arm was made efficient.

Arm (n.) A weapon of offense or defense; an instrument of warfare; -- commonly in the pl.

Armed (imp. & p. p.) of Arm

Arming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arm

Arm (v. t.) To take by the arm; to take up in one's arms.

Arm (v. t.) To furnish with arms or limbs.

Arm (v. t.) To furnish or equip with weapons of offense or defense; as, to arm soldiers; to arm the country.

Arm (v. t.) To cover or furnish with a plate, or with whatever will add strength, force, security, or efficiency; as, to arm the hit of a sword; to arm a hook in angling.

Arm (v. t.) Fig.: To furnish with means of defense; to prepare for resistance; to fortify, in a moral sense.

Arm (v. i.) To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack or resistance; to take arms.

Armada (v. t.) A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558.

Armadillos (pl. ) of Armadillo

Armadillo (n.) Any edentate animal if the family Dasypidae, peculiar to America. The body and head are incased in an armor composed of small bony plates. The armadillos burrow in the earth, seldom going abroad except at night. When attacked, they curl up into a ball, presenting the armor on all sides. Their flesh is good food. There are several species, one of which (the peba) is found as far north as Texas. See Peba, Poyou, Tatouay.

Armadillo (n.) A genus of small isopod Crustacea that can roll themselves into a ball.

Armado (n.) Armada.

Armament (n.) A body of forces equipped for war; -- used of a land or naval force.

Armament (n.) All the cannon and small arms collectively, with their equipments, belonging to a ship or a fortification.

Armament (n.) Any equipment for resistance.

Armamentary (n.) An armory; a magazine or arsenal.

Armature (n.) Armor; whatever is worn or used for the protection and defense of the body, esp. the protective outfit of some animals and plants.

Armature (n.) A piece of soft iron used to connect the two poles of a magnet, or electro-magnet, in order to complete the circuit, or to receive and apply the magnetic force. In the ordinary horseshoe magnet, it serves to prevent the dissipation of the magnetic force.

Armature (n.) Iron bars or framing employed for the consolidation of a building, as in sustaining slender columns, holding up canopies, etc.

Armchair (n.) A chair with arms to support the elbows or forearms.

Armed (a.) Furnished with weapons of offense or defense; furnished with the means of security or protection.

Armed (a.) Furnished with whatever serves to add strength, force, or efficiency.

Armed (a.) Having horns, beak, talons, etc; -- said of beasts and birds of prey.

Armenian (a.) Of or pertaining to Armenia.

Armenian (n.) A native or one of the people of Armenia; also, the language of the Armenians.

Armenian (n.) An adherent of the Armenian Church, an organization similar in some doctrines and practices to the Greek Church, in others to the Roman Catholic.

Armet (n.) A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.

Armfulus (pl. ) of Armful

Armful (n.) As much as the arm can hold.

Armgaunt (a.) With gaunt or slender legs. (?)

Arm-gret (a.) Great as a man's arm.

Armhole (n.) The cavity under the shoulder; the armpit.

Armhole (n.) A hole for the arm in a garment.

Armiferous (a.) Bearing arms or weapons.

Armiger (n.) Formerly, an armor bearer, as of a knight, an esquire who bore his shield and rendered other services. In later use, one next in degree to a knight, and entitled to armorial bearings. The term is now superseded by esquire.

Armigerous (a.) Bearing arms.

Armil (n.) A bracelet.

Armil (n.) An ancient astronomical instrument.

Armillas (pl. ) of Armilla

Armillae (pl. ) of Armilla

Armilla (n.) An armil.

Armilla (n.) A ring of hair or feathers on the legs.

Armillary (n.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a bracelet or ring; consisting of rings or circles.

Arming (n.) The act of furnishing with, or taking, arms.

Arming (n.) A piece of tallow placed in a cavity at the lower end of a sounding lead, to bring up the sand, shells, etc., of the sea bottom.

Arming (n.) Red dress cloths formerly hung fore and aft outside of a ship's upper works on holidays.

Arminian (a.) Of or pertaining to Arminius of his followers, or to their doctrines. See note under Arminian, n.

Arminian (n.) One who holds the tenets of Arminius, a Dutch divine (b. 1560, d. 1609).

Arminianism (n.) The religious doctrines or tenets of the Arminians.

Armipotence (n.) Power in arms.

Armipotent (a.) Powerful in arms; mighty in battle.

Armisonant (a.) Alt. of Armisonous

Armisonous (a.) Rustling in arms; resounding with arms.

Armistice (n.) A cessation of arms for a short time, by convention; a temporary suspension of hostilities by agreement; a truce.

Armless (a.) Without any arm or branch.

Armless (a.) Destitute of arms or weapons.

Armlet (n.) A small arm; as, an armlet of the sea.

Armlet (n.) An arm ring; a bracelet for the upper arm.

Armlet (n.) Armor for the arm.

Armoniac (a.) Ammoniac.

Armor (n.) Defensive arms for the body; any clothing or covering worn to protect one's person in battle.

Armor (n.) Steel or iron covering, whether of ships or forts, protecting them from the fire of artillery.

Armor-bearer (n.) One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger.

Armored (a.) Clad with armor.

Armorer (n.) One who makes or repairs armor or arms.

Armorer (n.) Formerly, one who had care of the arms and armor of a knight, and who dressed him in armor.

Armorer (n.) One who has the care of arms and armor, cleans or repairs them, etc.

Armorial (a.) Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of a family.

Armoric (a.) Alt. of Armorican

Armorican (a.) Of or pertaining to the northwestern part of France (formerly called Armorica, now Bretagne or Brittany), or to its people.

Armorican (n.) The language of the Armoricans, a Celtic dialect which has remained to the present times.

Armorican (n.) A native of Armorica.

Armorist (n.) One skilled in coat armor or heraldry.

Armor-plated (a.) Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war; steel-clad.

Armories (pl. ) of Armory

Armory (n.) A place where arms and instruments of war are deposited for safe keeping.

Armory (n.) Armor; defensive and offensive arms.

Armory (n.) A manufactory of arms, as rifles, muskets, pistols, bayonets, swords.

Armory (n.) Ensigns armorial; armorial bearings.

Armory (n.) That branch of heraldry which treats of coat armor.

Armozeen (n.) Alt. of Armozine

Armozine (n.) A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.

Armpit (n.) The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the axilla.

Armrack (n.) A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms.

Arms (n.) Instruments or weapons of offense or defense.

Arms (n.) The deeds or exploits of war; military service or science.

Arms (n.) Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike or assault another with; an aggressive weapon.

Arms (n.) The ensigns armorial of a family, consisting of figures and colors borne in shields, banners, etc., as marks of dignity and distinction, and descending from father to son.

Arms (n.) The legs of a hawk from the thigh to the foot.

Armure (n.) Armor.

Armure (n.) A variety of twilled fabric ribbed on the surface.

Army (n.) A collection or body of men armed for war, esp. one organized in companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, under proper officers.

Army (n.) A body of persons organized for the advancement of a cause; as, the Blue Ribbon Army.

Army (n.) A great number; a vast multitude; a host.

Army worm () A lepidopterous insect, which in the larval state often travels in great multitudes from field to field, destroying grass, grain, and other crops. The common army worm of the northern United States is Leucania unipuncta. The name is often applied to other related species, as the cotton worm.

Army worm () The larva of a small two-winged fly (Sciara), which marches in large companies, in regular order. See Cotton worm, under Cotton.

Arna (n.) Alt. of Arnee

Arnee (n.) The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger than the domestic buffalo and having enormous horns.

Arnatto (n.) See Annotto.

Arnica (n.) A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica montana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as a narcotic and stimulant.

Arnicin (n.) An active principle of Arnica montana. It is a bitter resin.

Arnicine (n.) An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.

Arnot (n.) Alt. of Arnut

Arnut (n.) The earthnut.

Arnotto (n.) Same as Annotto.

Aroid (a.) Alt. of Aroideous

Aroideous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the Arum family of plants.

Aroint (interj.) Stand off, or begone.

Aroint (v. t.) To drive or scare off by some exclamation.

Aroma (n.) The quality or principle of plants or other substances which constitutes their fragrance; agreeable odor; as, the aroma of coffee.

Aroma (n.) Fig.: The fine diffusive quality of intellectual power; flavor; as, the subtile aroma of genius.

Aromatic (a.) Alt. of Aromatical

Aromatical (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong-scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam.

Aromatic (n.) A plant, drug, or medicine, characterized by a fragrant smell, and usually by a warm, pungent taste, as ginger, cinnamon, spices.

Aromatization (n.) The act of impregnating or secting with aroma.

Aromatized (imp. & p. p.) of Aromatize

Aromatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aromatize

Aromatize (v. t.) To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicy scent or taste to; to perfume.

Aromatizer (n.) One who, or that which, aromatizes or renders aromatic.

Aromatous (a.) Aromatic.

Aroph (n.) A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate various medical remedies.

Arose () The past or preterit tense of Arise.

Around (adv.) In a circle; circularly; on every side; round.

Around (adv.) In a circuit; here and there within the surrounding space; all about; as, to travel around from town to town.

Around (adv.) Near; in the neighborhood; as, this man was standing around when the fight took place.

Around (prep.) On all sides of; encircling; encompassing; so as to make the circuit of; about.

Around (prep.) From one part to another of; at random through; about; on another side of; as, to travel around the country; a house standing around the corner.

Arousal (n.) The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused.

Aroused (imp. & p. p.) of Arouse

Arousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arouse

Arouse (v. t.) To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put in motion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one from sleep; to arouse the dormant faculties.

Arow (adv.) In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order.

Aroynt (interj.) See Aroint.

Arpeggio (n.) The production of the tones of a chord in rapid succession, as in playing the harp, and not simultaneously; a strain thus played.

Arpent (n.) Alt. of Arpen

Arpen (n.) Formerly, a measure of land in France, varying in different parts of the country. The arpent of Paris was 4,088 sq. yards, or nearly five sixths of an English acre. The woodland arpent was about 1 acre, 1 rood, 1 perch, English.

Arpentator (n.) The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor.

Arpine (n.) An arpent.

Arquated (a.) Shaped like a bow; arcuate; curved.

Arquebus (n.) Alt. of Arquebuse

Arquebuse (n.) A sort of hand gun or firearm a contrivance answering to a trigger, by which the burning match was applied. The musket was a later invention.

Arquebusade (n.) The shot of an arquebus.

Arquebusade (n.) A distilled water from a variety of aromatic plants, as rosemary, millefoil, etc.; -- originally used as a vulnerary in gunshot wounds.

Arquebusier (n.) A soldier armed with an arquebus.

Arquifoux (n.) Same as Alquifou.

Arrach (n.) See Orach.

Arrack (n.) A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardent spirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice, molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc.

Arragonite (n.) See Aragonite.

Arraigned (imp. & p. p.) of Arraign

Arraigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arraign

Arraign (v. t.) To call or set as a prisoner at the bar of a court to answer to the matter charged in an indictment or complaint.

Arraign (v. t.) To call to account, or accuse, before the bar of reason, taste, or any other tribunal.

Arraign (n.) Arraignment; as, the clerk of the arraigns.

Arraign (v. t.) To appeal to; to demand; as, to arraign an assize of novel disseizin.

Arraigner (n.) One who arraigns.

Arraignment (n.) The act of arraigning, or the state of being arraigned; the act of calling and setting a prisoner before a court to answer to an indictment or complaint.

Arraignment (n.) A calling to an account to faults; accusation.

Arraiment (v. t.) Alt. of Arrayment

Arrayment (v. t.) Clothes; raiment.

Arranged (imp. & p. p.) of Arrange

Arranging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arrange

Arrange (v. t.) To put in proper order; to dispose (persons, or parts) in the manner intended, or best suited for the purpose; as, troops arranged for battle.

Arrange (v. t.) To adjust or settle; to prepare; to determine; as, to arrange the preliminaries of an undertaking.

Arrangement (n.) The act of arranging or putting in an orderly condition; the state of being arranged or put in order; disposition in suitable form.

Arrangement (n.) The manner or result of arranging; system of parts disposed in due order; regular and systematic classification; as, arrangement of one's dress; the Linnaean arrangement of plants.

Arrangement (n.) Preparatory proceeding or measure; preparation; as, we have made arrangement for receiving company.

Arrangement (n.) Settlement; adjustment by agreement; as, the parties have made an arrangement between themselves concerning their disputes; a satisfactory arrangement.

Arrangement (n.) The adaptation of a composition to voices or instruments for which it was not originally written.

Arrangement (n.) A piece so adapted; a transcription; as, a pianoforte arrangement of Beethoven's symphonies; an orchestral arrangement of a song, an opera, or the like.

Arranger (n.) One who arranges.

Arrant (a.) Notoriously or preeminently bad; thorough or downright, in a bad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward.

Arrant (a.) Thorough or downright, in a good sense.

Arrantly (adv.) Notoriously, in an ill sense; infamously; impudently; shamefully.

Arras (n.) Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen or hangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures.

Arras (v. t.) To furnish with an arras.

Arrasene (n.) A material of wool or silk used for working the figures in embroidery.

Arrastre (n.) A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containing free gold.

Arraswise (adv.) Alt. of Arrasways

Arrasways (adv.) Placed in such a position as to exhibit the top and two sides, the corner being in front; -- said of a rectangular form.

Arraught () Obtained; seized.

Array (n.) Order; a regular and imposing arrangement; disposition in regular lines; hence, order of battle; as, drawn up in battle array.

Array (n.) The whole body of persons thus placed in order; an orderly collection; hence, a body of soldiers.

Array (n.) An imposing series of things.

Array (n.) Dress; garments disposed in order upon the person; rich or beautiful apparel.

Array (n.) A ranking or setting forth in order, by the proper officer, of a jury as impaneled in a cause.

Array (n.) The panel itself.

Array (n.) The whole body of jurors summoned to attend the court.

Arrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Array

Arraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Array

Array (n.) To place or dispose in order, as troops for battle; to marshal.

Array (n.) To deck or dress; to adorn with dress; to cloth to envelop; -- applied esp. to dress of a splendid kind.

Array (n.) To set in order, as a jury, for the trial of a cause; that is, to call them man by man.

Arrayer (n.) One who arrays. In some early English statutes, applied to an officer who had care of the soldiers' armor, and who saw them duly accoutered.

Arrear (adv.) To or in the rear; behind; backwards.

Arrear (n.) That which is behind in payment, or which remains unpaid, though due; esp. a remainder, or balance which remains due when some part has been paid; arrearage; -- commonly used in the plural, as, arrears of rent, wages, or taxes.

Arrearage (n.) That which remains unpaid and overdue, after payment of a part; arrears.

Arrect (a.) Alt. of Arrected

Arrected (a.) Lifted up; raised; erect.

Arrected (a.) Attentive, as a person listening.

Arrect (v. t.) To direct.

Arrect (v. t.) To impute.

Arrectary (n.) An upright beam.

Arrenotokous (a.) Producing males from unfertilized eggs, as certain wasps and bees.

Arrentation () A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in a forest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent.

Arreption (n.) The act of taking away.

Arreptitious (a.) Snatched away; seized or possessed, as a demoniac; raving; mad; crack-brained.

Arrested (imp. & p. p.) of Arrest

Arresting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arrest

Arrest (v. t.) To stop; to check or hinder the motion or action of; as, to arrest the current of a river; to arrest the senses.

Arrest (v. t.) To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrest one for debt, or for a crime.

Arrest (v. t.) To seize on and fix; to hold; to catch; as, to arrest the eyes or attention.

Arrest (v. t.) To rest or fasten; to fix; to concentrate.

Arrest (v. i.) To tarry; to rest.

Arrest (v. t.) The act of stopping, or restraining from further motion, etc.; stoppage; hindrance; restraint; as, an arrest of development.

Arrest (v. t.) The taking or apprehending of a person by authority of law; legal restraint; custody. Also, a decree, mandate, or warrant.

Arrest (v. t.) Any seizure by power, physical or moral.

Arrest (v. t.) A scurfiness of the back part of the hind leg of a horse; -- also named rat-tails.

Arrestation (n.) Arrest.

Arrestee (v.) The person in whose hands is the property attached by arrestment.

Arrester (n.) One who arrests.

Arrester (n.) The person at whose suit an arrestment is made.

Arresting (a.) Striking; attracting attention; impressive.

Arrestive (a.) Tending to arrest.

Arrestment (n.) The arrest of a person, or the seizure of his effects; esp., a process by which money or movables in the possession of a third party are attached.

Arrestment (n.) A stoppage or check.

Arret (n.) A judgment, decision, or decree of a court or high tribunal; also, a decree of a sovereign.

Arret (n.) An arrest; a legal seizure.

Arret (v. t.) Same as Aret.

Arrhaphostic (a.) Seamless.

Arrhizal (a.) Alt. of Arrhizous

Arrhizous (a.) Destitute of a true root, as a parasitical plant.

Arrhythmic (a.) Alt. of Arrhythmous

Arrhythmous (a.) Being without rhythm or regularity, as the pulse.

Arrhytmy (n.) Want of rhythm.

Arride (v. t.) To please; to gratify.

Arriere (n.) That which is behind; the rear; -- chiefly used as an adjective in the sense of behind, rear, subordinate.

Arriere-ban (n.) A proclamation, as of the French kings, calling not only their immediate feudatories, but the vassals of these feudatories, to take the field for war; also, the body of vassals called or liable to be called to arms, as in ancient France.

Arris (n.) The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meeting each other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to the edges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate the flutings in a Doric column.

Arrish (n.) The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish.

Arriswise (adv.) Diagonally laid, as tiles; ridgewise.

Arrival (n.) The act of arriving, or coming; the act of reaching a place from a distance, whether by water (as in its original sense) or by land.

Arrival (n.) The attainment or reaching of any object, by effort, or in natural course; as, our arrival at this conclusion was wholly unexpected.

Arrival (n.) The person or thing arriving or which has arrived; as, news brought by the last arrival.

Arrival (n.) An approach.

Arrivance (n.) Arrival.

Arrived (imp. & p. p.) of Arrive

Arriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arrive

Arrive (v. i.) To come to the shore or bank. In present usage: To come in progress by water, or by traveling on land; to reach by water or by land; -- followed by at (formerly sometimes by to), also by in and from.

Arrive (v. i.) To reach a point by progressive motion; to gain or compass an object by effort, practice, study, inquiry, reasoning, or experiment.

Arrive (v. i.) To come; said of time; as, the time arrived.

Arrive (v. i.) To happen or occur.

Arrive (v. t.) To bring to shore.

Arrive (v. t.) To reach; to come to.

Arrive (n.) Arrival.

Arriver (n.) One who arrives.

Arroba (n.) A Spanish weight used in Mexico and South America = 25.36 lbs. avoir.; also, an old Portuguese weight, used in Brazil = 32.38 lbs. avoir.

Arroba (n.) A Spanish liquid measure for wine = 3.54 imp. gallons, and for oil = 2.78 imp. gallons.

Arrogance (n.) The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in an overbearing manner; that species of pride which consists in exorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or which exalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree; proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption; presumption.

Arrogancy (n.) Arrogance.

Arrogant (a.) Making, or having the disposition to make, exorbitant claims of rank or estimation; giving one's self an undue degree of importance; assuming; haughty; -- applied to persons.

Arrogant (a.) Containing arrogance; marked with arrogance; proceeding from undue claims or self-importance; -- applied to things; as, arrogant pretensions or behavior.

Arrogantly (adv.) In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.

Arrogantness (n.) Arrogance.

Arrogated (imp. & p. p.) of Arrogate

Arrogating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arrogate

Arrogate (v. t.) To assume, or claim as one's own, unduly, proudly, or presumptuously; to make undue claims to, from vanity or baseless pretensions to right or merit; as, the pope arrogated dominion over kings.

Arrogation (n.) The act of arrogating, or making exorbitant claims; the act of taking more than one is justly entitled to.

Arrogation (n.) Adoption of a person of full age.

Arrogative (a.) Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance.

Arrondissement (n.) A subdivision of a department.

Arrose (v. t.) To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten.

Arrosion (n.) A gnawing.

Arrow (n.) A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usually feathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow.

Arrow grass (n.) An herbaceous grasslike plant (Triglochin palustre, and other species) with pods opening so as to suggest barbed arrowheads.

Arrowhead (n.) The head of an arrow.

Arrowhead (n.) An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia, -- named from the shape of the leaves.

Arrowheaded (a.) Shaped like the head of an arrow; cuneiform.

Arrowroot (n.) A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea, now cultivated in many hot countries. It said that the Indians used the roots to neutralize the venom in wounds made by poisoned arrows.

Arrowroot (n.) A nutritive starch obtained from the rootstocks of Maranta arundinacea, and used as food, esp. for children an invalids; also, a similar starch obtained from other plants, as various species of Maranta and Curcuma.

Arrowwood (n.) A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets; -- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots.

Arrowworm (n.) A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at the surface of the sea. See Sagitta.

Arrowy (a.) Consisting of arrows.

Arrowy (a.) Formed or moving like, or in any respect resembling, an arrow; swift; darting; piercing.

Arroyos (pl. ) of Arroyo

Arroyo (n.) A water course; a rivulet.

Arroyo (n.) The dry bed of a small stream.

Arschin (n.) See Arshine.

Arse (n.) The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the fundament; the bottom.

Arsenal (n.) A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufacture and storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land or naval service.

Arsenate (n.) A salt of arsenic acid.

Arseniate (n.) See Arsenate.

Arsenic (n.) One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal in its physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking with the nonmetals. It is of a steel-gray color and brilliant luster, though usually dull from tarnish. It is very brittle, and sublimes at 356 Fahrenheit. It is sometimes found native, but usually combined with silver, cobalt, nickel, iron, antimony, or sulphur. Orpiment and realgar are two of its sulphur compounds, the first of which is the true arsenicum of the ancients. The element and its compounds are active poisons. Specific gravity from 5.7 to 5.9. Atomic weight 75. Symbol As.

Arsenic (n.) Arsenious oxide or arsenious anhydride; -- called also arsenious acid, white arsenic, and ratsbane.

Arsenic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic; -- said of those compounds of arsenic in which this element has its highest equivalence; as, arsenic acid.

Arsenical (a.) Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenical vapor; arsenical wall papers.

Arsenicated (imp. & p. p.) of Arsenicate

Arsenicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arsenicate

Arsenicate (v. t.) To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic.

Arsenicism (n.) A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic.

Arsenide (n.) A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element or radical; -- formerly called arseniuret.

Arseniferous (a.) Containing or producing arsenic.

Arsenious (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenious powder or glass.

Arsenious (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic, when having an equivalence next lower than the highest; as, arsenious acid.

Arsenite (n.) A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base.

Arseniuret (n.) See Arsenide.

Arseniureted (a.) Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances or radicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen.

Arsenopyrite (n.) A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containing arsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites and mispickel.

Arsesmart (n.) Smartweed; water pepper.

Arshine (n.) A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches.

Arsine (n.) A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and exceedingly poisonous gas, having an odor like garlic; arseniureted hydrogen.

Arsis (n.) That part of a foot where the ictus is put, or which is distinguished from the rest (known as the thesis) of the foot by a greater stress of voice.

Arsis (n.) That elevation of voice now called metrical accentuation, or the rhythmic accent.

Arsis (n.) The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which it is raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; -- opposed to thesis.

Arsmetrike (n.) Arithmetic.

Arson (n.) The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and voluntary firing of a building or ship.

Art () The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of the second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn or poetical style.

Art (n.) The employment of means to accomplish some desired end; the adaptation of things in the natural world to the uses of life; the application of knowledge or power to practical purposes.

Art (n.) A system of rules serving to facilitate the performance of certain actions; a system of principles and rules for attaining a desired end; method of doing well some special work; -- often contradistinguished from science or speculative principles; as, the art of building or engraving; the art of war; the art of navigation.

Art (n.) The systematic application of knowledge or skill in effecting a desired result. Also, an occupation or business requiring such knowledge or skill.

Art (n.) The application of skill to the production of the beautiful by imitation or design, or an occupation in which skill is so employed, as in painting and sculpture; one of the fine arts; as, he prefers art to literature.

Art (n.) Those branches of learning which are taught in the academical course of colleges; as, master of arts.

Art (n.) Learning; study; applied knowledge, science, or letters.

Art (n.) Skill, dexterity, or the power of performing certain actions, acquired by experience, study, or observation; knack; as, a man has the art of managing his business to advantage.

Art (n.) Skillful plan; device.

Art (n.) Cunning; artifice; craft.

Art (n.) The black art; magic.

Artemia (n.) A genus of phyllopod Crustacea found in salt lakes and brines; the brine shrimp. See Brine shrimp.

Artemisia (n.) A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort, southernwood, and wormwood. Of these A. absinthium, or common wormwood, is well known, and A. tridentata is the sage brush of the Rocky Mountain region.

Arteriac (a.) Of or pertaining to the windpipe.

Arterial (a.) Of or pertaining to an artery, or the arteries; as, arterial action; the arterial system.

Arterial (a.) Of or pertaining to a main channel (resembling an artery), as a river, canal, or railroad.

Arterialization (n.) The process of converting venous blood into arterial blood during its passage through the lungs, oxygen being absorbed and carbonic acid evolved; -- called also aeration and hematosis.

Arterialized (imp. & p. p.) of Arterialize

Arterializing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arterialize

Arterialize (v. t.) To transform, as the venous blood, into arterial blood by exposure to oxygen in the lungs; to make arterial.

Arteriography (n.) A systematic description of the arteries.

Arteriole (n.) A small artery.

Arteriology (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of arteries.

Arteriotomy (n.) The opening of an artery, esp. for bloodletting.

Arteriotomy (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of the dissection of the arteries.

Arteritis (n.) Inflammation of an artery or arteries.

Arteries (pl. ) of Artery

Artery (n.) The trachea or windpipe.

Artery (n.) One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous or arterial blood from the heart. They have tricker and more muscular walls than veins, and are connected with them by capillaries.

Artery (n.) Hence: Any continuous or ramified channel of communication; as, arteries of trade or commerce.

Artesian (a.) Of or pertaining to Artois (anciently called Artesium), in France.

Artful (a.) Performed with, or characterized by, art or skill.

Artful (a.) Artificial; imitative.

Artful (a.) Using or exhibiting much art, skill, or contrivance; dexterous; skillful.

Artful (a.) Cunning; disposed to cunning indirectness of dealing; crafty; as, an artful boy. [The usual sense.]

Artfully (adv.) In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully; dexterously; craftily.

Artfulness (n.) The quality of being artful; art; cunning; craft.

Arthen (a.) Same as

Arthritic (a.) Alt. of Arthritical

Arthritical (a.) Pertaining to the joints.

Arthritical (a.) Of or pertaining to arthritis; gouty.

Arthritis (n.) Any inflammation of the joints, particularly the gout.

Arthroderm (n.) The external covering of an Arthropod.

Arthrodia (n.) A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articular surfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect ball and socket.

Arthrodial (a.) Alt. of Arthrodic

Arthrodic (a.) Of or pertaining to arthrodia.

Arthrodynia (n.) An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, not dependent upon structural disease.

Arthrodynic (a.) Pertaining to arthrodynia, or pain in the joints; rheumatic.

Arthrogastra (n. pl.) A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated, including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi.

Arthrography (n.) The description of joints.

Arthrology (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of joints.

Arthromere (n.) One of the body segments of Arthropods. See Arthrostraca.

Arthropleura (n.) The side or limb-bearing portion of an arthromere.

Arthropod (n.) One of the Arthropoda.

Arthropoda (n. pl.) A large division of Articulata, embracing all those that have jointed legs. It includes Insects, Arachnida, Pychnogonida, and Crustacea.

Arthropomata (n. pl.) One of the orders of Branchiopoda. See Branchiopoda.

Arthrosis (n.) Articulation.

Arthrostraca (n. pl.) One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because the thorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda. It includes the Amphipoda and Isopoda.

Arthrozoic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Articulata; articulate.

Artiad (a.) Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals the valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder.

Artichoke (n.) The Cynara scolymus, a plant somewhat resembling a thistle, with a dilated, imbricated, and prickly involucre. The head (to which the name is also applied) is composed of numerous oval scales, inclosing the florets, sitting on a broad receptacle, which, with the fleshy base of the scales, is much esteemed as an article of food.

Artichoke (n.) See Jerusalem artichoke.

Article (n.) A distinct portion of an instrument, discourse, literary work, or any other writing, consisting of two or more particulars, or treating of various topics; as, an article in the Constitution. Hence: A clause in a contract, system of regulations, treaty, or the like; a term, condition, or stipulation in a contract; a concise statement; as, articles of agreement.

Article (n.) A literary composition, forming an independent portion of a magazine, newspaper, or cyclopedia.

Article (n.) Subject; matter; concern; distinct.

Article (n.) A distinct part.

Article (n.) A particular one of various things; as, an article of merchandise; salt is a necessary article.

Article (n.) Precise point of time; moment.

Article (n.) One of the three words, a, an, the, used before nouns to limit or define their application. A (or an) is called the indefinite article, the the definite article.

Article (n.) One of the segments of an articulated appendage.

Articled (imp. & p. p.) of Article

Articling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Article

Article (n.) To formulate in articles; to set forth in distinct particulars.

Article (n.) To accuse or charge by an exhibition of articles.

Article (n.) To bind by articles of covenant or stipulation; as, to article an apprentice to a mechanic.

Article (v. i.) To agree by articles; to stipulate; to bargain; to covenant.

Articled (a.) Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk.

Articular (n.) Of or pertaining to the joints; as, an articular disease; an articular process.

Articular (n.) Alt. of Articulary

Articulary (n.) A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes.

Articularly (adv.) In an articular or an articulate manner.

Articulata (v.) One of the four subkingdoms in the classification of Cuvier. It has been much modified by later writers.

Articulata (v.) One of the subdivisions of the Brachiopoda, including those that have the shells united by a hinge.

Articulata (v.) A subdivision of the Crinoidea.

Articulate (a.) Expressed in articles or in separate items or particulars.

Articulate (a.) Jointed; formed with joints; consisting of segments united by joints; as, articulate animals or plants.

Articulate (a.) Distinctly uttered; spoken so as to be intelligible; characterized by division into words and syllables; as, articulate speech, sounds, words.

Articulate (n.) An animal of the subkingdom Articulata.

Articulated (imp. & p. p.) of Articulate

Articulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Articulate

Articulate (v. i.) To utter articulate sounds; to utter the elementary sounds of a language; to enunciate; to speak distinctly.

Articulate (v. i.) To treat or make terms.

Articulate (v. i.) To join or be connected by articulation.

Articulate (v. t.) To joint; to unite by means of a joint; to put together with joints or at the joints.

Articulate (v. t.) To draw up or write in separate articles; to particularize; to specify.

Articulate (v. t.) To form, as the elementary sounds; to utter in distinct syllables or words; to enunciate; as, to articulate letters or language.

Articulate (v. t.) To express distinctly; to give utterance to.

Articulated (a.) United by, or provided with, articulations; jointed; as, an articulated skeleton.

Articulated (a.) Produced, as a letter, syllable, or word, by the organs of speech; pronounced.

Articulately (adv.) After the manner, or in the form, of a joint.

Articulately (adv.) Article by article; in distinct particulars; in detail; definitely.

Articulately (adv.) With distinct utterance of the separate sounds.

Articulateness (n.) Quality of being articulate.

Articulation (n.) A joint or juncture between bones in the skeleton.

Articulation (n.) The connection of the parts of a plant by joints, as in pods.

Articulation (n.) One of the nodes or joints, as in cane and maize.

Articulation (n.) One of the parts intercepted between the joints; also, a subdivision into parts at regular or irregular intervals as a result of serial intermission in growth, as in the cane, grasses, etc.

Articulation (n.) The act of putting together with a joint or joints; any meeting of parts in a joint.

Articulation (n.) The state of being jointed; connection of parts.

Articulation (n.) The utterance of the elementary sounds of a language by the appropriate movements of the organs, as in pronunciation; as, a distinct articulation.

Articulation (n.) A sound made by the vocal organs; an articulate utterance or an elementary sound, esp. a consonant.

Articulative (a.) Of or pertaining to articulation.

Articulator (n.) One who, or that which, articulates; as: (a) One who enunciates distinctly. (b) One who prepares and mounts skeletons. (c) An instrument to cure stammering.

Articuli (pl. ) of Articulus

Articulus (n.) A joint of the cirri of the Crinoidea; a joint or segment of an arthropod appendage.

Artifice (n.) A handicraft; a trade; art of making.

Artifice (n.) Workmanship; a skillfully contrived work.

Artifice (n.) Artful or skillful contrivance.

Artifice (n.) Crafty device; an artful, ingenious, or elaborate trick. [Now the usual meaning.]

Artificer (n.) An artistic worker; a mechanic or manufacturer; one whose occupation requires skill or knowledge of a particular kind, as a silversmith.

Artificer (n.) One who makes or contrives; a deviser, inventor, or framer.

Artificer (n.) A cunning or artful fellow.

Artificer (n.) A military mechanic, as a blacksmith, carpenter, etc.; also, one who prepares the shells, fuses, grenades, etc., in a military laboratory.

Artificial (a.) Made or contrived by art; produced or modified by human skill and labor, in opposition to natural; as, artificial heat or light, gems, salts, minerals, fountains, flowers.

Artificial (a.) Feigned; fictitious; assumed; affected; not genuine.

Artificial (a.) Artful; cunning; crafty.

Artificial (a.) Cultivated; not indigenous; not of spontaneous growth; as, artificial grasses.

Artificiality (n.) The quality or appearance of being artificial; that which is artificial.

Artificialize (v. t.) To render artificial.

Artificially (adv.) In an artificial manner; by art, or skill and contrivance, not by nature.

Artificially (adv.) Ingeniously; skillfully.

Artificially (adv.) Craftily; artfully.

Artificialness (n.) The quality of being artificial.

Artificious (a.) Artificial.

Artilize (v. t.) To make resemble.

Artillerist (n.) A person skilled in artillery or gunnery; a gunner; an artilleryman.

Artillery (n.) Munitions of war; implements for warfare, as slings, bows, and arrows.

Artillery (n.) Cannon; great guns; ordnance, including guns, mortars, howitzers, etc., with their equipment of carriages, balls, bombs, and shot of all kinds.

Artillery (n.) The men and officers of that branch of the army to which the care and management of artillery are confided.

Artillery (n.) The science of artillery or gunnery.

Artilleryman (n.) A man who manages, or assists in managing, a large gun in firing.

Artiodactyla (n. pl.) One of the divisions of the ungulate animals. The functional toes of the hind foot are even in number, and the third digit of each foot (corresponding to the middle finger in man) is asymmetrical and paired with the fourth digit, as in the hog, the sheep, and the ox; -- opposed to Perissodactyla.

Artiodactyle (n.) One of the Artiodactyla.

Artiodactylous (a.) Even-toed.

Artisan (n.) One who professes and practices some liberal art; an artist.

Artisan (n.) One trained to manual dexterity in some mechanic art or trade; and handicraftsman; a mechanic.

Artist (n.) One who practices some mechanic art or craft; an artisan.

Artist (n.) One who professes and practices an art in which science and taste preside over the manual execution.

Artist (n.) One who shows trained skill or rare taste in any manual art or occupation.

Artist (n.) An artful person; a schemer.

Artiste (n.) One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment, as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook.

Artistic (a.) Alt. of Artistical

Artistical (a.) Of or pertaining to art or to artists; made in the manner of an artist; conformable to art; characterized by art; showing taste or skill.

Artistry (n.) Works of art collectively.

Artistry (n.) Artistic effect or quality.

Artistry (n.) Artistic pursuits; artistic ability.

Artless (a.) Wanting art, knowledge, or skill; ignorant; unskillful.

Artless (a.) Contrived without skill or art; inartistic.

Artless (a.) Free from guile, art, craft, or stratagem; characterized by simplicity and sincerity; sincere; guileless; ingenuous; honest; as, an artless mind; an artless tale.

Artlessly (adv.) In an artless manner; without art, skill, or guile; unaffectedly.

Artlessness (n.) The quality of being artless, or void of art or guile; simplicity; sincerity.

Artly (adv.) With art or skill.

Artocarpeous (a.) Alt. of Artocarpous

Artocarpous (a.) Of or pertaining to the breadfruit, or to the genus Artocarpus.

Artotype (n.) A kind of autotype.

Artotyrite (n.) One of a sect in the primitive church, who celebrated the Lord's Supper with bread and cheese, alleging that the first oblations of men not only of the fruit of the earth, but of their flocks. [Gen. iv. 3, 4.]

Artow () A contraction of art thou.

Artsman (n.) A man skilled in an art or in arts.

Art union () An association for promoting art (esp. the arts of design), and giving encouragement to artists.

Arum (n.) A genus of plants found in central Europe and about the Mediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. The cuckoopint of the English is an example.

Arundelian (a.) Pertaining to an Earl of Arundel; as, Arundel or Arundelian marbles, marbles from ancient Greece, bought by the Earl of Arundel in 1624.

Arundiferous (a.) Producing reeds or canes.

Arundinaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a reed; resembling the reed or cane.

Arundineous (a.) Abounding with reeds; reedy.

Aruspices (pl. ) of Aruspex

Aruspex (n.) One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans, who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victims offered on the altars of the gods.

Aruspice (n.) A soothsayer of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspex.

Aruspicy (n.) Prognostication by inspection of the entrails of victims slain sacrifice.

Arval (n.) A funeral feast.

Arvicole (n.) A mouse of the genus Arvicola; the meadow mouse. There are many species.

Aryan (n.) One of a primitive people supposed to have lived in prehistoric times, in Central Asia, east of the Caspian Sea, and north of the Hindoo Koosh and Paropamisan Mountains, and to have been the stock from which sprang the Hindoo, Persian, Greek, Latin, Celtic, Teutonic, Slavonic, and other races; one of that ethnological division of mankind called also Indo-European or Indo-Germanic.

Aryan (n.) The language of the original Aryans.

Aryan (a.) Of or pertaining to the people called Aryans; Indo-European; Indo-Germanic; as, the Aryan stock, the Aryan languages.

Aryanize (v. t.) To make Aryan (a language, or in language).

Arytenoid (a.) Ladle-shaped; -- applied to two small cartilages of the larynx, and also to the glands, muscles, etc., connected with them. The cartilages are attached to the cricoid cartilage and connected with the vocal cords.

As (adv. & conj.) Denoting equality or likeness in kind, degree, or manner; like; similar to; in the same manner with or in which; in accordance with; in proportion to; to the extent or degree in which or to which; equally; no less than; as, ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil; you will reap as you sow; do as you are bidden.

As (adv. & conj.) In the idea, character, or condition of, -- limiting the view to certain attributes or relations; as, virtue considered as virtue; this actor will appear as Hamlet.

As (adv. & conj.) While; during or at the same time that; when; as, he trembled as he spoke.

As (adv. & conj.) Because; since; it being the case that.

As (adv. & conj.) Expressing concession. (Often approaching though in meaning).

As (adv. & conj.) That, introducing or expressing a result or consequence, after the correlatives so and such.

As (adv. & conj.) As if; as though.

As (adv. & conj.) For instance; by way of example; thus; -- used to introduce illustrative phrases, sentences, or citations.

As (adv. & conj.) Than.

As (adv. & conj.) Expressing a wish.

As (n.) An ace.

Asses (pl. ) of As

As (n.) A Roman weight, answering to the libra or pound, equal to nearly eleven ounces Troy weight. It was divided into twelve ounces.

As (n.) A Roman copper coin, originally of a pound weight (12 oz.); but reduced, after the first Punic war, to two ounces; in the second Punic war, to one ounce; and afterwards to half an ounce.

Asa (n.) An ancient name of a gum.

Asafetida (n.) Alt. of Asafoetida

Asafoetida (n.) The fetid gum resin or inspissated juice of a large umbelliferous plant (Ferula asafoetida) of Persia and the East Indies. It is used in medicine as an antispasmodic.

Asaphus (n.) A genus of trilobites found in the Lower Silurian formation. See Illust. in Append.

Asarabacca (n.) An acrid herbaceous plant (Asarum Europaeum), the leaves and roots of which are emetic and cathartic. It is principally used in cephalic snuffs.

Asarone (n.) A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from the Asarum Europaeum; -- called also camphor of asarum.

Asbestic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling asbestus; inconsumable; asbestine.

Asbestiform (a.) Having the form or structure of asbestus.

Asbestine (a.) Of or pertaining to asbestus, or partaking of its nature; incombustible; asbestic.

Asbestous (a.) Asbestic.

Asbestus (n.) Alt. of Asbestos

Asbestos (n.) A variety of amphibole or of pyroxene, occurring in long and delicate fibers, or in fibrous masses or seams, usually of a white, gray, or green-gray color. The name is also given to a similar variety of serpentine.

Asbolin (n.) A peculiar acrid and bitter oil, obtained from wood soot.

Ascarides (pl. ) of Ascarid

Ascarid (n.) A parasitic nematoid worm, espec. the roundworm, Ascaris lumbricoides, often occurring in the human intestine, and allied species found in domestic animals; also commonly applied to the pinworm (Oxyuris), often troublesome to children and aged persons.

Ascended (imp. & p. p.) of Ascend

Ascending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ascend

Ascend (v. i.) To move upward; to mount; to go up; to rise; -- opposed to descend.

Ascend (v. i.) To rise, in a figurative sense; to proceed from an inferior to a superior degree, from mean to noble objects, from particulars to generals, from modern to ancient times, from one note to another more acute, etc.; as, our inquiries ascend to the remotest antiquity; to ascend to our first progenitor.

Ascend (v. t.) To go or move upward upon or along; to climb; to mount; to go up the top of; as, to ascend a hill, a ladder, a tree, a river, a throne.

Ascendable (a.) Capable of being ascended.

Ascendancy (n.) Alt. of Ascendance

Ascendance (n.) Same as Ascendency.

Ascendant (n.) Ascent; height; elevation.

Ascendant (n.) The horoscope, or that degree of the ecliptic which rises above the horizon at the moment of one's birth; supposed to have a commanding influence on a person's life and fortune.

Ascendant (n.) Superiority, or commanding influence; ascendency; as, one man has the ascendant over another.

Ascendant (n.) An ancestor, or one who precedes in genealogy or degrees of kindred; a relative in the ascending line; a progenitor; -- opposed to descendant.

Ascendant (a.) Alt. of Ascendent

Ascendent (a.) Rising toward the zenith; above the horizon.

Ascendent (a.) Rising; ascending.

Ascendent (a.) Superior; surpassing; ruling.

Ascendency (n.) Governing or controlling influence; domination; power.

Ascendible (a.) Capable of being ascended; climbable.

Ascending (a.) Rising; moving upward; as, an ascending kite.

Ascension (n.) The act of ascending; a rising; ascent.

Ascension (n.) Specifically: The visible ascent of our Savior on the fortieth day after his resurrection. (Acts i. 9.) Also, Ascension Day.

Ascension (n.) An ascending or arising, as in distillation; also that which arises, as from distillation.

Ascensional (a.) Relating to ascension; connected with ascent; ascensive; tending upward; as, the ascensional power of a balloon.

Ascensive (a.) Rising; tending to rise, or causing to rise.

Ascensive (a.) Augmentative; intensive.

Ascent () The act of rising; motion upward; rise; a mounting upward; as, he made a tedious ascent; the ascent of vapors from the earth.

Ascent () The way or means by which one ascends.

Ascent () An eminence, hill, or high place.

Ascent () The degree of elevation of an object, or the angle it makes with a horizontal line; inclination; rising grade; as, a road has an ascent of five degrees.

Ascertained (imp. & p. p.) of Ascertain

Ascertaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ascertain

Ascertain (v. t.) To render (a person) certain; to cause to feel certain; to make confident; to assure; to apprise.

Ascertain (v. t.) To make (a thing) certain to the mind; to free from obscurity, doubt, or change; to make sure of; to fix; to determine.

Ascertain (v. t.) To find out or learn for a certainty, by trial, examination, or experiment; to get to know; as, to ascertain the weight of a commodity, or the purity of a metal.

Ascertainable (a.) That may be ascertained.

Ascertainer (n.) One who ascertains.

Ascertainment (n.) The act of ascertaining; a reducing to certainty; a finding out by investigation; discovery.

Ascessancy (a.) Alt. of Ascessant

Ascessant (a.) See Acescency, Acescent.

Ascetic (a.) Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe.

Ascetic (n.) In the early church, one who devoted himself to a solitary and contemplative life, characterized by devotion, extreme self-denial, and self-mortification; a hermit; a recluse; hence, one who practices extreme rigor and self-denial in religious things.

Asceticism (n.) The condition, practice, or mode of life, of ascetics.

Ascham (n.) A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and other implements of archery.

Asci (n. pl.) See Ascus.

Ascian (n.) One of the Ascii.

Ascidian (n.) One of the Ascidioidea, or in a more general sense, one of the Tunicata. Also as an adj.

Ascidiarium (n.) The structure which unites together the ascidiozooids in a compound ascidian.

Ascidiform (a.) Shaped like an ascidian.

Ascidioidea (n. pl.) A group of Tunicata, often shaped like a two-necked bottle. The group includes, social, and compound species. The gill is a netlike structure within the oral aperture. The integument is usually leathery in texture. See Illustration in Appendix.

Ascidiozooid (n.) One of the individual members of a compound ascidian. See Ascidioidea.

Ascidia (pl. ) of Ascidium

Ascidium (n.) A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of a plant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderlike traps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).

Ascidium (n.) A genus of simple ascidians, which formerly included most of the known species. It is sometimes used as a name for the Ascidioidea, or for all the Tunicata.

Ascigerous (a.) Having asci.

Ascii (n. pl.) Alt. of Ascians

Ascians (n. pl.) Persons who, at certain times of the year, have no shadow at noon; -- applied to the inhabitants of the torrid zone, who have, twice a year, a vertical sun.

Ascites (n.) A collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the abdomen; dropsy of the peritoneum.

Ascitic (a.) Alt. of Ascitical

Ascitical (a.) Of, pertaining to, or affected by, ascites; dropsical.

Ascititious (a.) Supplemental; not inherent or original; adscititious; additional; assumed.

Asclepiad (n.) A choriambic verse, first used by the Greek poet Asclepias, consisting of four feet, viz., a spondee, two choriambi, and an iambus.

Asclepiadaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the Milkweed family.

Asclepias (n.) A genus of plants including the milkweed, swallowwort, and some other species having medicinal properties.

Ascococci (pl. ) of Ascococcus

Ascococcus (n.) A form of micrococcus, found in putrid meat infusions, occurring in peculiar masses, each of which is inclosed in a hyaline capsule and contains a large number of spherical micrococci.

Ascospore (n.) One of the spores contained in the asci of lichens and fungi. [See Illust. of Ascus.]

Ascribable (a.) Capable of being ascribed; attributable.

Ascribed (imp. & p. p.) of Ascribe

Ascribing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ascribe

Ascribe (v. t.) To attribute, impute, or refer, as to a cause; as, his death was ascribed to a poison; to ascribe an effect to the right cause; to ascribe such a book to such an author.

Ascribe (v. t.) To attribute, as a quality, or an appurtenance; to consider or allege to belong.

Ascript (a.) See Adscript.

Ascription (n.) The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also, that which is ascribed.

Ascriptitious (a.) Ascribed.

Ascriptitious (a.) Added; additional.

Ascus (n.) A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain fungi.

A-sea (adv.) On the sea; at sea; toward the sea.

Aseptic (a.) Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent.

Aseptic (n.) An aseptic substance.

Asexual (a.) Having no distinct sex; without sexual action; as, asexual reproduction. See Fission and Gemmation.

Asexually (adv.) In an asexual manner; without sexual agency.

Ash (n.) A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnate leaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as the European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F. Americana).

Ash (n.) The tough, elastic wood of the ash tree.

Ash (n.) sing. of Ashes.

Ash (v. t.) To strew or sprinkle with ashes.

Ashame (v. t.) To shame.

Ashamed (a.) Affected by shame; abashed or confused by guilt, or a conviction or consciousness of some wrong action or impropriety.

Ashamedly (adv.) Bashfully.

Ashantees (pl. ) of Ashantee

Ashantee (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Ashantee in Western Africa.

Ashantee (a.) Of or pertaining to Ashantee.

Ash-colored (a.) Of the color of ashes; a whitish gray or brownish gray.

Ashen (a.) Of or pertaining to the ash tree.

Ashen (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, ashes; of a color between brown and gray, or white and gray.

Ashen (n.) obs. pl. for Ashes.

Ashery (n.) A depository for ashes.

Ashery (n.) A place where potash is made.

Ashes (n. pl.) The earthy or mineral particles of combustible substances remaining after combustion, as of wood or coal.

Ashes (n. pl.) Specifically: The remains of the human body when burnt, or when returned to dust by natural decay.

Ashes (n. pl.) The color of ashes; deathlike paleness.

Ash-fire (n.) A low fire used in chemical operations.

Ash-furnace (n.) Alt. of Ash-oven

Ash-oven (n.) A furnace or oven for fritting materials for glass making.

Ashine (a.) Shining; radiant.

Ashlar (n.) Alt. of Ashler

Ashler (n.) Hewn or squared stone; also, masonry made of squared or hewn stone.

Ashler (n.) In the United States especially, a thin facing of squared and dressed stone upon a wall of rubble or brick.

Ashlaring (n.) Alt. of Ashlering

Ashlering (n.) The act of bedding ashlar in mortar.

Ashlering (n.) Ashlar when in thin slabs and made to serve merely as a case to the body of the wall.

Ashlering (n.) The short upright pieces between the floor beams and rafters in garrets. See Ashlar, 2.

Ashore (adv.) On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to the shore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimes opposed to aboard or afloat.

Ashtaroth (pl. ) of Ashtoreth

Ashtoreth (n.) The principal female divinity of the Phoenicians, as Baal was the principal male divinity.

Ash Wednesday () The first day of Lent; -- so called from a custom in the Roman Catholic church of putting ashes, on that day, upon the foreheads of penitents.

Ashweed (n.) Goutweed.

Ashy (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, ashes; filled, or strewed with, ashes.

Ashy (a.) Ash-colored; whitish gray; deadly pale.

Asian (a.) Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic.

Asian (n.) An Asiatic.

Asiarch (n.) One of the chiefs or pontiffs of the Roman province of Asia, who had the superintendence of the public games and religious rites.

Asiatic (a.) Of or pertaining to Asia or to its inhabitants.

Asiatic (n.) A native, or one of the people, of Asia.

Asiaticism (n.) Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.

Aside (adv.) On, or to, one side; out of a straight line, course, or direction; at a little distance from the rest; out of the way; apart.

Aside (adv.) Out of one's thoughts; off; away; as, to put aside gloomy thoughts.

Aside (adv.) So as to be heard by others; privately.

Aside (n.) Something spoken aside; as, a remark made by a stageplayer which the other players are not supposed to hear.

Asilus (n.) A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including the bee killer and robber fly.

Asinego (n.) Alt. of Assinego

Assinego (n.) A stupid fellow.

Asinine (a.) Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, as stupidity and obstinacy.

Asininity (n.) The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined with obstinacy.

Asiphonate (a.) Destitute of a siphon or breathing tube; -- said of many bivalve shells.

Asiphonate (n.) An asiphonate mollusk.

Asiphonea (n. pl.) Alt. of Asiphonida

Asiphonata (n. pl.) Alt. of Asiphonida

Asiphonida (n. pl.) A group of bivalve mollusks destitute of siphons, as the oyster; the asiphonate mollusks.

Asitia (n.) Want of appetite; loathing of food.

Asked (imp. & p. p.) of Ask

Asking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ask

Ask (v. t.) To request; to seek to obtain by words; to petition; to solicit; -- often with of, in the sense of from, before the person addressed.

Ask (v. t.) To require, demand, claim, or expect, whether by way of remuneration or return, or as a matter of necessity; as, what price do you ask?

Ask (v. t.) To interrogate or inquire of or concerning; to put a question to or about; to question.

Ask (v. t.) To invite; as, to ask one to an entertainment.

Ask (v. t.) To publish in church for marriage; -- said of both the banns and the persons.

Ask (v. i.) To request or petition; -- usually followed by for; as, to ask for bread.

Ask (v. i.) To make inquiry, or seek by request; -- sometimes followed by after.

Ask (n.) A water newt.

Askance (adv.) Alt. of Askant

Askant (adv.) Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or suspicion.

Askance (v. t.) To turn aside.

Asker (n.) One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer.

Asker (n.) An ask; a water newt.

Askew (adv. & a.) Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry.

Asking (n.) The act of inquiring or requesting; a petition; solicitation.

Asking (n.) The publishing of banns.

Aslake (v. t. & i.) To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish.

Aslant (adv. & a.) Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely.

Aslant (prep.) In a slanting direction over; athwart.

Asleep (a. & adv.) In a state of sleep; in sleep; dormant.

Asleep (a. & adv.) In the sleep of the grave; dead.

Asleep (a. & adv.) Numbed, and, usually, tingling.

Aslope (adv. & a.) Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction; sloping.

Aslug (adv.) Sluggishly.

Asmear (a.) Smeared over.

Asmonean (a.) Of or pertaining to the patriotic Jewish family to which the Maccabees belonged; Maccabean; as, the Asmonean dynasty.

Asmonean (n.) One of the Asmonean family. The Asmoneans were leaders and rulers of the Jews from 168 to 35 b. c.

Asoak (a.) Soaking.

Asomatous (a.) Without a material body; incorporeal.

Asonant (a.) Not sounding or sounded.

Asp (n.) Same as Aspen.

Asp (n.) A small, hooded, poisonous serpent of Egypt and adjacent countries, whose bite is often fatal. It is the Naja haje. The name is also applied to other poisonous serpents, esp. to Vipera aspis of southern Europe. See Haje.

Aspalathus (n.) A thorny shrub yielding a fragrant oil.

Aspalathus (n.) A genus of plants of the natural order Leguminosae. The species are chiefly natives of the Cape of Good Hope.

Asparagine (n.) A white, nitrogenous, crystallizable substance, C4H8N2O3+H2O, found in many plants, and first obtained from asparagus. It is believed to aid in the disposition of nitrogenous matter throughout the plant; -- called also altheine.

Asparaginous (a.) Pertaining or allied to, or resembling, asparagus; having shoots which are eaten like asparagus; as, asparaginous vegetables.

Asparagus (n.) A genus of perennial plants belonging to the natural order Liliaceae, and having erect much branched stems, and very slender branchlets which are sometimes mistaken for leaves. Asparagus racemosus is a shrubby climbing plant with fragrant flowers. Specifically: The Asparagus officinalis, a species cultivated in gardens.

Asparagus (n.) The young and tender shoots of A. officinalis, which form a valuable and well-known article of food.

Aspartic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived, asparagine; as, aspartic acid.

Aspect (n.) The act of looking; vision; gaze; glance.

Aspect (n.) Look, or particular appearance of the face; countenance; mien; air.

Aspect (n.) Appearance to the eye or the mind; look; view.

Aspect (n.) Position or situation with regard to seeing; that position which enables one to look in a particular direction; position in relation to the points of the compass; as, a house has a southern aspect, that is, a position which faces the south.

Aspect (n.) Prospect; outlook.

Aspect (n.) The situation of planets or stars with respect to one another, or the angle formed by the rays of light proceeding from them and meeting at the eye; the joint look of planets or stars upon each other or upon the earth.

Aspect (n.) The influence of the stars for good or evil; as, an ill aspect.

Aspect (n.) To behold; to look at.

Aspectable (a.) Capable of being; visible.

Aspectant (a.) Facing each other.

Aspected (a.) Having an aspect.

Aspection (n.) The act of viewing; a look.

Aspen (n.) Alt. of Asp

Asp (n.) One of several species of poplar bearing this name, especially the Populus tremula, so called from the trembling of its leaves, which move with the slightest impulse of the air.

Aspen (a.) Of or pertaining to the aspen, or resembling it; made of aspen wood.

Asper (a.) Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce.

Asper (n.) The rough breathing; a mark (/) placed over an initial vowel sound or over / to show that it is aspirated, that is, pronounced with h before it; thus ws, pronounced h/s, rh`twr, pronounced hrat/r.

Asper (n.) A Turkish money of account (formerly a coin), of little value; the 120th part of a piaster.

Asperated (imp. & p. p.) of Asperate

Asperating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Asperate

Asperate (v. t.) To make rough or uneven.

Asperation (n.) The act of asperating; a making or becoming rough.

Asperges (n.) The service or ceremony of sprinkling with holy water.

Asperges (n.) The brush or instrument used in sprinkling holy water; an aspergill.

Aspergill (n.) Alt. of Aspergillum

Aspergillum (n.) The brush used in the Roman Catholic church for sprinkling holy water on the people.

Aspergillum (n.) See Wateringpot shell.

Aspergilliform (a.) Resembling the aspergillum in form; as, an aspergilliform stigma.

Asperifoliate (a.) Alt. of Asperifolious

Asperifolious (a.) Having rough leaves.

Asperities (pl. ) of Asperity

Asperity (n.) Roughness of surface; unevenness; -- opposed to smoothness.

Asperity (n.) Roughness or harshness of sound; that quality which grates upon the ear; raucity.

Asperity (n.) Roughness to the taste; sourness; tartness.

Asperity (n.) Moral roughness; roughness of manner; severity; crabbedness; harshness; -- opposed to mildness.

Asperity (n.) Sharpness; disagreeableness; difficulty.

Aspermatous (a.) Aspermous.

Aspermous (a.) Destitute of seeds; aspermatous.

Asperne (v. t.) To spurn; to despise.

Asperous (a.) Rough; uneven.

Aspersed (imp. & p. p.) of Asperse

Aspersing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Asperse

Asperse (v. t.) To sprinkle, as water or dust, upon anybody or anything, or to besprinkle any one with a liquid or with dust.

Asperse (v. t.) To bespatter with foul reports or false and injurious charges; to tarnish in point of reputation or good name; to slander or calumniate; as, to asperse a poet or his writings; to asperse a man's character.

Aspersed (a.) Having an indefinite number of small charges scattered or strewed over the surface.

Aspersed (a.) Bespattered; slandered; calumniated.

Asperser (n.) One who asperses; especially, one who vilifies another.

Aspersion (n.) A sprinkling, as with water or dust, in a literal sense.

Aspersion (n.) The spreading of calumniations reports or charges which tarnish reputation, like the bespattering of a body with foul water; calumny.

Aspersive (a.) Tending to asperse; defamatory; slanderous.

Aspersoir (n.) An aspergill.

Aspersoria (pl. ) of Aspersorium

Aspersorium (n.) The stoup, basin, or other vessel for holy water in Roman Catholic churches.

Aspersorium (n.) A brush for sprinkling holy water; an aspergill.

Asphalt (n.) Alt. of Asphaltum

Asphaltum (n.) Mineral pitch, Jews' pitch, or compact native bitumen. It is brittle, of a black or brown color and high luster on a surface of fracture; it melts and burns when heated, leaving no residue. It occurs on the surface and shores of the Dead Sea, which is therefore called Asphaltites, or the Asphaltic Lake. It is found also in many parts of Asia, Europe, and America. See Bitumen.

Asphaltum (n.) A composition of bitumen, pitch, lime, and gravel, used for forming pavements, and as a water-proof cement for bridges, roofs, etc.; asphaltic cement. Artificial asphalt is prepared from coal tar, lime, sand, etc.

Asphalt (v. t.) To cover with asphalt; as, to asphalt a roof; asphalted streets.

Asphalte (n.) Asphaltic mastic or cement. See Asphalt, 2.

Asphaltic (a.) Pertaining to, of the nature of, or containing, asphalt; bituminous.

Asphaltite (a.) Asphaltic.

Asphaltite (a.) Asphaltic.

Asphaltus (n.) See Asphalt.

Asphodel (n.) A general name for a plant of the genus Asphodelus. The asphodels are hardy perennial plants, several species of which are cultivated for the beauty of their flowers.

Asphyctic (a.) Pertaining to asphyxia.

Asphyxia (n.) Alt. of Asphyxy

Asphyxy (n.) Apparent death, or suspended animation; the condition which results from interruption of respiration, as in suffocation or drowning, or the inhalation of irrespirable gases.

Asphyxial (a.) Of or relating to asphyxia; as, asphyxial phenomena.

Asphyxiate (v. t.) To bring to a state of asphyxia; to suffocate. [Used commonly in the past pple.]

Asphyxiated (p. p. ) Alt. of Asphyxied

Asphyxied (p. p. ) In a state of asphyxia; suffocated.

Asphyxiation (n.) The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia.

Aspic (n.) The venomous asp.

Aspic (n.) A piece of ordnance carrying a 12 pound shot.

Aspic (n.) A European species of lavender (Lavandula spica), which produces a volatile oil. See Spike.

Aspic (n.) A savory meat jelly containing portions of fowl, game, fish, hard boiled eggs, etc.

Aspidobranchia (n. pl.) A group of Gastropoda, with limpetlike shells, including the abalone shells and keyhole limpets.

Aspirant (a.) Aspiring.

Aspirant (n.) One who aspires; one who eagerly seeks some high position or object of attainment.

Aspirated (imp. & p. p.) of Aspirate

Aspirating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aspirate

Aspirate (v. t.) To pronounce with a breathing, an aspirate, or an h sound; as, we aspirate the words horse and house; to aspirate a vowel or a liquid consonant.

Aspirate (n.) A sound consisting of, or characterized by, a breath like the sound of h; the breathing h or a character representing such a sound; an aspirated sound.

Aspirate (n.) A mark of aspiration (/) used in Greek; the asper, or rough breathing.

Aspirate (n.) An elementary sound produced by the breath alone; a surd, or nonvocal consonant; as, f, th in thin, etc.

Aspirate (a.) Alt. of Aspirated

Aspirated (a.) Pronounced with the h sound or with audible breath.

Aspiration (n.) The act of aspirating; the pronunciation of a letter with a full or strong emission of breath; an aspirated sound.

Aspiration (n.) The act of breathing; a breath; an inspiration.

Aspiration (n.) The act of aspiring of a ardently desiring; strong wish; high desire.

Aspirator (n.) An apparatus for passing air or gases through or over certain liquids or solids, or for exhausting a closed vessel, by means of suction.

Aspirator (n.) An instrument for the evacuation of the fluid contents of tumors or collections of blood.

Aspiratory (a.) Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air

Aspired (imp. & p. p.) of Aspire

Aspiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aspire

Aspire (v. t.) To desire with eagerness; to seek to attain something high or great; to pant; to long; -- followed by to or after, and rarely by at; as, to aspire to a crown; to aspire after immorality.

Aspire (v. t.) To rise; to ascend; to tower; to soar.

Aspire (v. t.) To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to.

Aspire (n.) Aspiration.

Aspirement (n.) Aspiration.

Aspirer (n.) One who aspires.

Aspiring (a.) That aspires; as, an Aspiring mind.

Aspish (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an asp.

Asportation (n.) The felonious removal of goods from the place where they were deposited.

Asprawl (adv. & a.) Sprawling.

Asquat (adv. & a.) Squatting.

Asquint (adv.) With the eye directed to one side; not in the straight line of vision; obliquely; awry, so as to see distortedly; as, to look asquint.

Ass (n.) A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than the horse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears. The tame or domestic ass is patient, slow, and sure-footed, and has become the type of obstinacy and stupidity. There are several species of wild asses which are swift-footed.

Ass (n.) A dull, heavy, stupid fellow; a dolt.

Assaf/tida (n.) Same as Asafetida.

Assagai (n.) Alt. of Assegai

Assegai (n.) A spear used by tribes in South Africa as a missile and for stabbing, a kind of light javelin.

Assai () A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow.

Assailed (imp. & p. p.) of Assail

Assailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assail

Assail (v. t.) To attack with violence, or in a vehement and hostile manner; to assault; to molest; as, to assail a man with blows; to assail a city with artillery.

Assail (v. t.) To encounter or meet purposely with the view of mastering, as an obstacle, difficulty, or the like.

Assail (v. t.) To attack morally, or with a view to produce changes in the feelings, character, conduct, existing usages, institutions; to attack by words, hostile influence, etc.; as, to assail one with appeals, arguments, abuse, ridicule, and the like.

Assailable (a.) Capable of being assailed.

Assailant (a.) Assailing; attacking.

Assailant (n.) One who, or that which, assails, attacks, or assaults; an assailer.

Assailer (n.) One who assails.

Assailment (n.) The act or power of assailing; attack; assault.

Assamar (n.) The peculiar bitter substance, soft or liquid, and of a yellow color, produced when meat, bread, gum, sugar, starch, and the like, are roasted till they turn brown.

Assamese (a.) Of or pertaining to Assam, a province of British India, or to its inhabitants.

Assamese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Assam.

Assapan (n.) Alt. of Assapanic

Assapanic (n.) The American flying squirrel (Pteromys volucella).

Assart (n.) The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thus destroying the thickets or coverts of a forest.

Assart (n.) A piece of land cleared of trees and bushes, and fitted for cultivation; a clearing.

Assart (v. t.) To grub up, as trees; to commit an assart upon; as, to assart land or trees.

Assassin (n.) One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secret assault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared for defense.

Assassin (v. t.) To assassinate.

Assassinated (imp. & p. p.) of Assassinate

Assassinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assassinate

Assassinate (v. t.) To kill by surprise or secret assault; to murder by treacherous violence.

Assassinate (v. t.) To assail with murderous intent; hence, by extended meaning, to maltreat exceedingly.

Assassinate (n.) An assassination, murder, or murderous assault.

Assassinate (n.) An assassin.

Assassination (n.) The act of assassinating; a killing by treacherous violence.

Assassinator (n.) An assassin.

Assassinous (a.) Murderous.

Assastion (n.) Roasting.

Assault (n.) A violent onset or attack with physical means, as blows, weapons, etc.; an onslaught; the rush or charge of an attacking force; onset; as, to make assault upon a man, a house, or a town.

Assault (n.) A violent onset or attack with moral weapons, as words, arguments, appeals, and the like; as, to make an assault on the prerogatives of a prince, or on the constitution of a government.

Assault (n.) An apparently violent attempt, or willful offer with force or violence, to do hurt to another; an attempt or offer to beat another, accompanied by a degree of violence, but without touching his person, as by lifting the fist, or a cane, in a threatening manner, or by striking at him, and missing him. If the blow aimed takes effect, it is a battery.

Assaulted (imp. & p. p.) of Assault

Assaulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assault

Assault (n.) To make an assault upon, as by a sudden rush of armed men; to attack with unlawful or insulting physical violence or menaces.

Assault (n.) To attack with moral means, or with a view of producing moral effects; to attack by words, arguments, or unfriendly measures; to assail; as, to assault a reputation or an administration.

Assaultable (a.) Capable of being assaulted.

Assaulter (n.) One who assaults, or violently attacks; an assailant.

Assay (n.) Trial; attempt; essay.

Assay (n.) Examination and determination; test; as, an assay of bread or wine.

Assay (n.) Trial by danger or by affliction; adventure; risk; hardship; state of being tried.

Assay (n.) Tested purity or value.

Assay (n.) The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of a particular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination of the proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin.

Assay (n.) The alloy or metal to be assayed.

Assayed (imp. & p. p.) of Assay

Assaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assay

Assay (v.) To try; to attempt; to apply.

Assay (v.) To affect.

Assay (v.) To try tasting, as food or drink.

Assay (v.) To subject, as an ore, alloy, or other metallic compound, to chemical or metallurgical examination, in order to determine the amount of a particular metal contained in it, or to ascertain its composition.

Assay (v. i.) To attempt, try, or endeavor.

Assayable (a.) That may be assayed.

Assayer (n.) One who assays. Specifically: One who examines metallic ores or compounds, for the purpose of determining the amount of any particular metal in the same, especially of gold or silver.

Assaying (n.) The act or process of testing, esp. of analyzing or examining metals and ores, to determine the proportion of pure metal.

Asse (n.) A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valued for its fur.

Assecuration (n.) Assurance; certainty.

Assecure (v. t.) To make sure or safe; to assure.

Assecution (n.) An obtaining or acquiring.

Assegai (n.) Same as Assagai.

Assemblage (n.) The act of assembling, or the state of being assembled; association.

Assemblage (n.) A collection of individuals, or of individuals, or of particular things; as, a political assemblage; an assemblage of ideas.

Assemblance (n.) Resemblance; likeness; appearance.

Assemblance (n.) An assembling; assemblage.

Assembled (imp. & p. p.) of Assemble

Assembling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assemble

Assemble (v. t.) To collect into one place or body; to bring or call together; to convene; to congregate.

Assemble (v. i.) To meet or come together, as a number of individuals; to convene; to congregate.

Assemble (v. i.) To liken; to compare.

Assembler (n.) One who assembles a number of individuals; also, one of a number assembled.

Assemblies (pl. ) of Assembly

Assembly (n.) A company of persons collected together in one place, and usually for some common purpose, esp. for deliberation and legislation, for worship, or for social entertainment.

Assembly (n.) A collection of inanimate objects.

Assembly (n.) A beat of the drum or sound of the bugle as a signal to troops to assemble.

Assemblymen (pl. ) of Assemblyman

Assemblyman (n.) A member of an assembly, especially of the lower branch of a state legislature.

Assented (imp. & p. p.) of Assent

Assenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assent

Assent (v. t.) To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement, acquiescence, concurrence, or concession.

Assent (v.) The act of assenting; the act of the mind in admitting or agreeing to anything; concurrence with approval; consent; agreement; acquiescence.

Assentation (n.) Insincere, flattering, or obsequious assent; hypocritical or pretended concurrence.

Assentator (n.) An obsequious; a flatterer.

Assentatory (a.) Flattering; obsequious.

Assenter (n.) One who assents.

Assentient (a.) Assenting.

Assenting (a.) Giving or implying assent.

Assentive (a.) Giving assent; of the nature of assent; complying.

Assentment (n.) Assent; agreement.

Asserted (imp. & p. p.) of Assert

Asserting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assert

Assert (v. t.) To affirm; to declare with assurance, or plainly and strongly; to state positively; to aver; to asseverate.

Assert (v. t.) To maintain; to defend.

Assert (v. t.) To maintain or defend, as a cause or a claim, by words or measures; to vindicate a claim or title to; as, to assert our rights and liberties.

Asserter (n.) One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor.

Assertion (n.) The act of asserting, or that which is asserted; positive declaration or averment; affirmation; statement asserted; position advanced.

Assertion (n.) Maintenance; vindication; as, the assertion of one's rights or prerogatives.

Assertive (a.) Positive; affirming confidently; affirmative; peremptory.

Assertor (n.) One who asserts or avers; one who maintains or vindicates a claim or a right; an affirmer, supporter, or vindicator; a defender; an asserter.

Assertorial (a.) Asserting that a thing is; -- opposed to problematical and apodeictical.

Assertory (a.) Affirming; maintaining.

Assessed (imp. & p. p.) of Assess

Assessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assess

Assess (v.) To value; to make a valuation or official estimate of for the purpose of taxation.

Assess (v.) To apportion a sum to be paid by (a person, a community, or an estate), in the nature of a tax, fine, etc.; to impose a tax upon (a person, an estate, or an income) according to a rate or apportionment.

Assess (v.) To determine and impose a tax or fine upon (a person, community, estate, or income); to tax; as, the club assessed each member twenty-five cents.

Assess (v.) To fix or determine the rate or amount of.

Assessable (a.) Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property.

Assessee (n.) One who is assessed.

Assession (n.) A sitting beside or near.

Assessment (n.) The act of assessing; the act of determining an amount to be paid; as, an assessment of damages, or of taxes; an assessment of the members of a club.

Assessment (n.) A valuation of property or profits of business, for the purpose of taxation; such valuation and an adjudging of the proper sum to be levied on the property; as, an assessment of property or an assessment on property.

Assessment (n.) The specific sum levied or assessed.

Assessment (n.) An apportionment of a subscription for stock into successive installments; also, one of these installments (in England termed a call).

Assessor (v.) One appointed or elected to assist a judge or magistrate with his special knowledge of the subject to be decided; as legal assessors, nautical assessors.

Assessor (v.) One who sits by another, as next in dignity, or as an assistant and adviser; an associate in office.

Assessor (v.) One appointed to assess persons or property for the purpose of taxation.

Assessorial (a.) Of or pertaining to an assessor, or to a court of assessors.

Assessorship (n.) The office or function of an assessor.

Asset (n.) Any article or separable part of one's assets.

Assets (n. pl.) Property of a deceased person, subject by law to the payment of his debts and legacies; -- called assets because sufficient to render the executor or administrator liable to the creditors and legatees, so far as such goods or estate may extend.

Assets (n. pl.) Effects of an insolvent debtor or bankrupt, applicable to the payment of debts.

Assets (n. pl.) The entire property of all sorts, belonging to a person, a corporation, or an estate; as, the assets of a merchant or a trading association; -- opposed to liabilities.

Assever (v. t.) See Asseverate.

Asseverated (imp. & p. p.) of Asseverate

Asseverating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Asseverate

Asseverate (v. t.) To affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.

Asseveration (n.) The act of asseverating, or that which is asseverated; positive affirmation or assertion; solemn declaration.

Asseverative (a.) Characterized by asseveration; asserting positively.

Asseveratory (a.) Asseverative.

Assibilate (v. t.) To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant.

Assibilation (n.) Change of a non-sibilant letter to a sibilant, as of -tion to -shun, duke to ditch.

Assidean (n.) One of a body of devoted Jews who opposed the Hellenistic Jews, and supported the Asmoneans.

Assident (a.) Usually attending a disease, but not always; as, assident signs, or symptoms.

Assiduate (a.) Unremitting; assiduous.

Assiduities (pl. ) of Assiduity

Assiduity (n.) Constant or close application or attention, particularly to some business or enterprise; diligence.

Assiduity (n.) Studied and persevering attention to a person; -- usually in the plural.

Assiduous (a.) Constant in application or attention; devoted; attentive; unremitting.

Assiduous (a.) Performed with constant diligence or attention; unremitting; persistent; as, assiduous labor.

Assiege (v. t.) To besiege.

Assiege (n.) A siege.

Assientist (n.) A shareholder of the Assiento company; one of the parties to the Assiento contract.

Assiento (n.) A contract or convention between Spain and other powers for furnishing negro slaves for the Spanish dominions in America, esp. the contract made with Great Britain in 1713.

Assigned (imp. & p. p.) of Assign

Assigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assign

Assign (v. t.) To appoint; to allot; to apportion; to make over.

Assign (v. t.) To fix, specify, select, or designate; to point out authoritatively or exactly; as, to assign a limit; to assign counsel for a prisoner; to assign a day for trial.

Assign (v. t.) To transfer, or make over to another, esp. to transfer to, and vest in, certain persons, called assignees, for the benefit of creditors.

Assign (v.) A thing pertaining or belonging to something else; an appurtenance.

Assign (n.) A person to whom property or an interest is transferred; as, a deed to a man and his heirs and assigns.

Assignability (n.) The quality of being assignable.

Assignable (a.) Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated; as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignable quantity.

Assignat (n.) One of the notes, bills, or bonds, issued as currency by the revolutionary government of France (1790-1796), and based on the security of the lands of the church and of nobles which had been appropriated by the state.

Assignation (n.) The act of assigning or allotting; apportionment.

Assignation (n.) An appointment of time and place for meeting or interview; -- used chiefly of love interviews, and now commonly in a bad sense.

Assignation (n.) A making over by transfer of title; assignment.

Assignee (v.) A person to whom an assignment is made; a person appointed or deputed by another to do some act, perform some business, or enjoy some right, privilege, or property; as, an assignee of a bankrupt. See Assignment (c). An assignee may be by special appointment or deed, or be created by jaw; as an executor.

Assignee (v.) In England, the persons appointed, under a commission of bankruptcy, to manage the estate of a bankrupt for the benefit of his creditors.

Assigner (n.) One who assigns, appoints, allots, or apportions.

Assignment (n.) An allotting or an appointment to a particular person or use; or for a particular time, as of a cause or causes in court.

Assignment (n.) A transfer of title or interest by writing, as of lease, bond, note, or bill of exchange; a transfer of the whole of some particular estate or interest in lands.

Assignment (n.) The writing by which an interest is transferred.

Assignment (n.) The transfer of the property of a bankrupt to certain persons called assignees, in whom it is vested for the benefit of creditors.

Assignor (n.) An assigner; a person who assigns or transfers an interest; as, the assignor of a debt or other chose in action.

Assimilability (n.) The quality of being assimilable.

Assimilable (a.) That may be assimilated; that may be likened, or appropriated and incorporated.

Assimilated (imp. & p. p.) of Assimilate

Assimilating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assimilate

Assimilate (v. t.) To bring to a likeness or to conformity; to cause a resemblance between.

Assimilate (v. t.) To liken; to compa/e.

Assimilate (v. t.) To appropriate and transform or incorporate into the substance of the assimilating body; to absorb or appropriate, as nourishment; as, food is assimilated and converted into organic tissue.

Assimilate (v. i.) To become similar or like something else.

Assimilate (v. i.) To change and appropriate nourishment so as to make it a part of the substance of the assimilating body.

Assimilate (v. i.) To be converted into the substance of the assimilating body; to become incorporated; as, some kinds of food assimilate more readily than others.

Assimilation (n.) The act or process of assimilating or bringing to a resemblance, likeness, or identity; also, the state of being so assimilated; as, the assimilation of one sound to another.

Assimilation (n.) The conversion of nutriment into the fluid or solid substance of the body, by the processes of digestion and absorption, whether in plants or animals.

Assimilative (a.) Tending to, or characterized by, assimilation; that assimilates or causes assimilation; as, an assimilative process or substance.

Assimilatory (a.) Tending to assimilate, or produce assimilation; as, assimilatory organs.

Assimulate (v. t.) To feign; to counterfeit; to simulate; to resemble.

Assimulate (v. t.) To assimilate.

Assimulation (n.) Assimilation.

Assinego (n.) See Asinego.

Assish (a.) Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate.

Assisted (imp. & p. p.) of Assist

Assisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assist

Assist (v. t.) To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of distress; to help; to aid; to succor.

Assist (v. i.) To lend aid; to help.

Assist (v. i.) To be present as a spectator; as, to assist at a public meeting.

Assistance (n.) The act of assisting; help; aid; furtherance; succor; support.

Assistance (n.) An assistant or helper; a body of helpers.

Assistance (n.) Persons present.

Assistant (a.) Helping; lending aid or support; auxiliary.

Assistant (a.) Of the second grade in the staff of the army; as, an assistant surgeon.

Assistant (n.) One who, or that which, assists; a helper; an auxiliary; a means of help.

Assistant (n.) An attendant; one who is present.

Assistantly (adv.) In a manner to give aid.

Assister (n.) An assistant; a helper.

Assistful (a.) Helpful.

Assistive (a.) Lending aid, helping.

Assistless (a.) Without aid or help.

Assistor (n.) A assister.

Assithment (n.) See Assythment.

Assize (n.) An assembly of knights and other substantial men, with a bailiff or justice, in a certain place and at a certain time, for public business.

Assize (n.) A special kind of jury or inquest.

Assize (n.) A kind of writ or real action.

Assize (n.) A verdict or finding of a jury upon such writ.

Assize (n.) A statute or ordinance in general. Specifically: (1) A statute regulating the weight, measure, and proportions of ingredients and the price of articles sold in the market; as, the assize of bread and other provisions; (2) A statute fixing the standard of weights and measures.

Assize (n.) Anything fixed or reduced to a certainty in point of time, number, quantity, quality, weight, measure, etc.; as, rent of assize.

Assize (n.) A court, the sitting or session of a court, for the trial of processes, whether civil or criminal, by a judge and jury.

Assize (n.) The periodical sessions of the judges of the superior courts in every county of England for the purpose of administering justice in the trial and determination of civil and criminal cases; -- usually in the plural.

Assize (n.) The time or place of holding the court of assize; -- generally in the plural, assizes.

Assize (n.) Measure; dimension; size.

Assized (imp. & p. p.) of Assize

Assizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assize

Assize (v.) To assess; to value; to rate.

Assize (v.) To fix the weight, measure, or price of, by an ordinance or regulation of authority.

Assizer (n.) An officer who has the care or inspection of weights and measures, etc.

Assizor (n.) A juror.

Assober (v. t.) To make or keep sober.

Associability (n.) The quality of being associable, or capable of association; associableness.

Associable (a.) Capable of being associated or joined.

Associable (a.) Sociable; companionable.

Associable (a.) Liable to be affected by sympathy with other parts; -- said of organs, nerves, muscles, etc.

Associableness (n.) Associability.

Associated (imp. & p. p.) of Associate

Associating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Associate

Associate (v. t.) To join with one, as a friend, companion, partner, or confederate; as, to associate others with us in business, or in an enterprise.

Associate (v. t.) To join or connect; to combine in acting; as, particles of gold associated with other substances.

Associate (v. t.) To connect or place together in thought.

Associate (v. t.) To accompany; to keep company with.

Associate (v. i.) To unite in company; to keep company, implying intimacy; as, congenial minds are disposed to associate.

Associate (v. i.) To unite in action, or to be affected by the action of a different part of the body.

Associate (a.) Closely connected or joined with some other, as in interest, purpose, employment, or office; sharing responsibility or authority; as, an associate judge.

Associate (a.) Admitted to some, but not to all, rights and privileges; as, an associate member.

Associate (a.) Connected by habit or sympathy; as, associate motions, such as occur sympathetically, in consequence of preceding motions.

Associate (n.) A companion; one frequently in company with another, implying intimacy or equality; a mate; a fellow.

Associate (n.) A partner in interest, as in business; or a confederate in a league.

Associate (n.) One connected with an association or institution without the full rights or privileges of a regular member; as, an associate of the Royal Academy.

Associate (n.) Anything closely or usually connected with another; an concomitant.

Associated (a.) Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying; combined.

Associateship (n.) The state of an associate, as in Academy or an office.

Association (n.) The act of associating, or state of being associated; union; connection, whether of persons of things.

Association (n.) Mental connection, or that which is mentally linked or associated with a thing.

Association (n.) Union of persons in a company or society for some particular purpose; as, the American Association for the Advancement of Science; a benevolent association. Specifically, as among the Congregationalists, a society, consisting of a number of ministers, generally the pastors of neighboring churches, united for promoting the interests of religion and the harmony of the churches.

Associational (a.) Of or pertaining to association, or to an association.

Associational (a.) Pertaining to the theory held by the associationists.

Associationism (n.) The doctrine or theory held by associationists.

Associationist (n.) One who explains the higher functions and relations of the soul by the association of ideas; e. g., Hartley, J. C. Mill.

Associative (a.) Having the quality of associating; tending or leading to association; as, the associative faculty.

Associator (n.) An associate; a confederate or partner in any scheme.

Assoil (v. t.) To set free; to release.

Assoil (v. t.) To solve; to clear up.

Assoil (v. t.) To set free from guilt; to absolve.

Assoil (v. t.) To expiate; to atone for.

Assoil (v. t.) To remove; to put off.

Assoil (v. t.) To soil; to stain.

Assoilment (n.) Act of assoiling, or state of being assoiled; absolution; acquittal.

Assoilment (n.) A soiling; defilement.

Assoilzie (v. t.) Alt. of Assoilyie

Assoilyie (v. t.) To absolve; to acquit by sentence of court.

Assonance (n.) Resemblance of sound.

Assonance (n.) A peculiar species of rhyme, in which the last acce`ted vow`l and tnose whioh follow it in one word correspond in sound with the vowels of another word, while the consonants of the two words are unlike in sound; as, calamo and platano, baby and chary.

Assonance (n.) Incomplete correspondence.

Assonant (a.) Having a resemblance of sounds.

Assonant (a.) Pertaining to the peculiar species of rhyme called assonance; not consonant.

Assonantal (a.) Assonant.

Assonate (v. i.) To correspond in sound.

Assorted (imp. & p. p.) of Assort

Assorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assort

Assort (v. t.) To separate and distribute into classes, as things of a like kind, nature, or quality, or which are suited to a like purpose; to classify; as, to assort goods. [Rarely applied to persons.]

Assort (v. t.) To furnish with, or make up of, various sorts or a variety of goods; as, to assort a cargo.

Assort (v. i.) To agree; to be in accordance; to be adapted; to suit; to fall into a class or place.

Assorted (a.) Selected; culled.

Assortment (n.) Act of assorting, or distributing into sorts, kinds, or classes.

Assortment (n.) A collection or quantity of things distributed into kinds or sorts; a number of things assorted.

Assortment (n.) A collection containing a variety of sorts or kinds adapted to various wants, demands, or purposes; as, an assortment of goods.

Assot (v. t.) To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate.

Assot (a.) Dazed; foolish; infatuated.

Assuaged (imp. & p. p.) of Assuage

Assuaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assuage

Assuage (v. t.) To soften, in a figurative sense; to allay, mitigate, ease, or lessen, as heat, pain, or grief; to appease or pacify, as passion or tumult; to satisfy, as appetite or desire.

Assuage (v. i.) To abate or subside.

Assuagement (n.) Mitigation; abatement.

Assuager (n.) One who, or that which, assuages.

Assuasive (a.) Mitigating; tranquilizing; soothing.

Assubjugate (v. t.) To bring into subjection.

Assuefaction (n.) The act of accustoming, or the state of being accustomed; habituation.

Assuetude (n.) Accustomedness; habit; habitual use.

Assumable (a.) That may be assumed.

Assumably (adv.) By way of assumption.

Assumed (imp. & p. p.) of Assume

Assuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assume

Assume (v. t.) To take to or upon one's self; to take formally and demonstratively; sometimes, to appropriate or take unjustly.

Assume (v. t.) To take for granted, or without proof; to suppose as a fact; to suppose or take arbitrarily or tentatively.

Assume (v. t.) To pretend to possess; to take in appearance.

Assume (v. t.) To receive or adopt.

Assume (v. i.) To be arrogant or pretentious; to claim more than is due.

Assume (v. i.) To undertake, as by a promise.

Assumed (a.) Supposed.

Assumed (a.) Pretended; hypocritical; make-believe; as, an assumed character.

Assumedly (adv.) By assumption.

Assument (n.) A patch; an addition; a piece put on.

Assumer (n.) One who assumes, arrogates, pretends, or supposes.

Assuming (a.) Pretentious; taking much upon one's self; presumptuous.

Assumpsit (n.) A promise or undertaking, founded on a consideration. This promise may be oral or in writing not under seal. It may be express or implied.

Assumpsit (n.) An action to recover damages for a breach or nonperformance of a contract or promise, express or implied, oral or in writing not under seal. Common or indebitatus assumpsit is brought for the most part on an implied promise. Special assumpsit is founded on an express promise or undertaking.

Assumpt (v. t.) To take up; to elevate; to assume.

Assumpt (n.) That which is assumed; an assumption.

Assumption (n.) The act of assuming, or taking to or upon one's self; the act of taking up or adopting.

Assumption (n.) The act of taking for granted, or supposing a thing without proof; supposition; unwarrantable claim.

Assumption (n.) The thing supposed; a postulate, or proposition assumed; a supposition.

Assumption (n.) The minor or second proposition in a categorical syllogism.

Assumption (n.) The taking of a person up into heaven.

Assumption (n.) A festival in honor of the ascent of the Virgin Mary into heaven.

Assumptive (a.) Assumed, or capable of being assumed; characterized by assumption; making unwarranted claims.

Assurance (n.) The act of assuring; a declaration tending to inspire full confidence; that which is designed to give confidence.

Assurance (n.) The state of being assured; firm persuasion; full confidence or trust; freedom from doubt; certainty.

Assurance (n.) Firmness of mind; undoubting, steadiness; intrepidity; courage; confidence; self-reliance.

Assurance (n.) Excess of boldness; impudence; audacity; as, his assurance is intolerable.

Assurance (n.) Betrothal; affiance.

Assurance (n.) Insurance; a contract for the payment of a sum on occasion of a certain event, as loss or death.

Assurance (n.) Any written or other legal evidence of the conveyance of property; a conveyance; a deed.

Assured (imp. & p. p.) of Assure

Assuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assure

Assure (v. t.) To make sure or certain; to render confident by a promise, declaration, or other evidence.

Assure (v. t.) To declare to, solemnly; to assert to (any one) with the design of inspiring belief or confidence.

Assure (v. t.) To confirm; to make certain or secure.

Assure (v. t.) To affiance; to betroth.

Assure (v. t.) To insure; to covenant to indemnify for loss, or to pay a specified sum at death. See Insure.

Assured (a.) Made sure; safe; insured; certain; indubitable; not doubting; bold to excess.

Assured (n.) One whose life or property is insured.

Assuredly (adv.) Certainly; indubitably.

Assuredness (n.) The state of being assured; certainty; full confidence.

Assurer (n.) One who assures. Specifically: One who insures against loss; an insurer or underwriter.

Assurer (n.) One who takes out a life assurance policy.

Assurgency (n.) Act of rising.

Assurgent (a.) Ascending

Assurgent (a.) rising obliquely; curving upward.

Assuring (a.) That assures; tending to assure; giving confidence.

Asswage (v.) See Assuage.

Assyrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Assyria, or to its inhabitants.

Assyrian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Assyria; the language of Assyria.

Assyriological (a.) Of or pertaining to Assyriology; as, Assyriological studies.

Assyriologist (n.) One versed in Assyriology; a student of Assyrian archaeology.

Assyriology (n.) The science or study of the antiquities, language, etc., of ancient Assyria.

Assythment (n.) Indemnification for injury; satisfaction.

Astacus (n.) A genus of crustaceans, containing the crawfish of fresh-water lobster of Europe, and allied species of western North America. See Crawfish.

Astarboard (adv.) Over to the starboard side; -- said of the tiller.

Astart (v. t. & i.) Same as Astert.

Astarte (n.) A genus of bivalve mollusks, common on the coasts of America and Europe.

Astate (n.) Estate; state.

Astatic (a.) Having little or no tendency to take a fixed or definite position or direction: thus, a suspended magnetic needle, when rendered astatic, loses its polarity, or tendency to point in a given direction.

Astatically (adv.) In an astatic manner.

Astaticism (n.) The state of being astatic.

Astay (adv.) An anchor is said to be astay, when, in heaving it, an acute angle is formed between the cable and the surface of the water.

Asteism (n.) Genteel irony; a polite and ingenious manner of deriding another.

Astel (n.) An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads in a mine.

Aster (n.) A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers; starwort; Michaelmas daisy.

Aster (n.) A plant of the genus Callistephus. Many varieties (called China asters, German asters, etc.) are cultivated for their handsome compound flowers.

Asterias (n.) A genus of echinoderms.

Asteriated (a.) Radiated, with diverging rays; as, asteriated sapphire.

Asteridian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Asterioidea.

Asteridian (n.) A starfish; one of the Asterioidea.

Asterioidea (n. pl.) Alt. of Asteridea

Asteridea (n. pl.) A class of Echinodermata including the true starfishes. The rays vary in number and always have ambulacral grooves below. The body is star-shaped or pentagonal.

Asterion (n.) The point on the side of the skull where the lambdoid, parieto-mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures.

Asteriscus (n.) The smaller of the two otoliths found in the inner ear of many fishes.

Asterisk (n.) The figure of a star, thus, /, used in printing and writing as a reference to a passage or note in the margin, to supply the omission of letters or words, or to mark a word or phrase as having a special character.

Asterism (n.) A constellation.

Asterism (n.) A small cluster of stars.

Asterism (n.) An asterisk, or mark of reference.

Asterism (n.) Three asterisks placed in this manner, /, to direct attention to a particular passage.

Asterism (n.) An optical property of some crystals which exhibit a star-shaped by reflected light, as star sapphire, or by transmitted light, as some mica.

Astern (adv.) In or at the hinder part of a ship; toward the hinder part, or stern; backward; as, to go astern.

Astern (adv.) Behind a ship; in the rear.

Asternal (a.) Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum.

Asteroid (n.) A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whose orbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called also planetoids and minor planets.

Asteroidal (a.) Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids.

Asterolepis (n.) A genus of fishes, some of which were eighteen or twenty feet long, found in a fossil state in the Old Red Sandstone.

Asterophyllite (n.) A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America, now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites.

Astert (v. t.) To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun.

Astert (v. i.) To escape.

Asthenia (n.) Alt. of Astheny

Astheny (n.) Want or loss of strength; debility; diminution of the vital forces.

Asthenic (a.) Characterized by, or pertaining to, debility; weak; debilitating.

Asthenopia (n.) Weakness of sight.

Asthma (n.) A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to a spasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals, accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in the chest, a cough, and expectoration.

Asthmatic (a.) Alt. of Asthmatical

Asthmatical (a.) Of or pertaining to asthma; as, an asthmatic cough; liable to, or suffering from, asthma; as, an asthmatic patient.

Asthmatic (n.) A person affected with asthma.

Astigmatic (a.) Affected with, or pertaining to, astigmatism; as, astigmatic eyes; also, remedying astigmatism; as, astigmatic lenses.

Astigmatism (n.) A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which the rays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point, thus causing imperfect images or indistinctness of vision.

Astipulate (v. i.) To assent.

Astipulation (n.) Stipulation; agreement.

Astir (adv. & a.) Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.

Astomatous (a.) Alt. of Astomous

Astomous (a.) Not possessing a mouth.

Astoned (imp. & p. p.) of Astone

Astond () of Astone

Astound () of Astone

Aston (v. t.) Alt. of Astone

Astone (v. t.) To stun; to astonish; to stupefy.

Astonied (p. p.) Stunned; astonished. See Astony.

Astonished (imp. & p. p.) of Astonish

Astonishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astonish

Astonish (v. t.) To stun; to render senseless, as by a blow.

Astonish (v. t.) To strike with sudden fear, terror, or wonder; to amaze; to surprise greatly, as with something unaccountable; to confound with some sudden emotion or passion.

Astonishedly (adv.) In an astonished manner.

Astonishing (a.) Very wonderful; of a nature to excite astonishment; as, an astonishing event.

Astonishment (n.) The condition of one who is stunned. Hence: Numbness; loss of sensation; stupor; loss of sense.

Astonishment (n.) Dismay; consternation.

Astonishment (n.) The overpowering emotion excited when something unaccountable, wonderful, or dreadful is presented to the mind; an intense degree of surprise; amazement.

Astonishment (n.) The object causing such an emotion.

Astonied (imp. & p. p.) of Astony

Astonying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astony

Astony (v. t.) To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay.

Astoop (adv.) In a stooping or inclined position.

Astound (a.) Stunned; astounded; astonished.

Astounded (imp. & p. p.) of Astound

Astound () of Astound

Astounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astound

Astound (a.) To stun; to stupefy.

Astound (a.) To astonish; to strike with amazement; to confound with wonder, surprise, or fear.

Astounding (a.) Of a nature to astound; astonishing; amazing; as, an astounding force, statement, or fact.

Astoundment (n.) Amazement.

Astrachan (a. & n.) See Astrakhan.

Astraddle (adv.) In a straddling position; astride; bestriding; as, to sit astraddle a horse.

Astraean (a.) Pertaining to the genus Astraea or the family Astraeidae.

Astraean (n.) A coral of the family Astraeidae; a star coral.

Astragal (n.) A convex molding of rounded surface, generally from half to three quarters of a circle.

Astragal (n.) A round molding encircling a cannon near the mouth.

Astragalar (a.) Of or pertaining to the astragalus.

Astragaloid (a.) Resembling the astragalus in form.

Astragalomancy (n.) Divination by means of small bones or dice.

Astragalus (n.) The ankle bone, or hock bone; the bone of the tarsus which articulates with the tibia at the ankle.

Astragalus (n.) A genus of papilionaceous plants, of the tribe Galegeae, containing numerous species, two of which are called, in English, milk vetch and licorice vetch. Gum tragacanth is obtained from different oriental species, particularly the A. gummifer and A. verus.

Astragalus (n.) See Astragal, 1.

Astrakhan (a.) Of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; made of an Astrakhan skin.

Astrakhan (n.) The skin of stillborn or young lambs of that region, the curled wool of which resembles fur.

Astral (a.) Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry; starlike.

Astrand (adv. & a.) Stranded.

Astray (adv. & a.) Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense; wandering; as, to lead one astray.

Astricted (imp. & p. p.) of Astrict

Astricting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astrict

Astrict (v. t.) To bind up; to confine; to constrict; to contract.

Astrict (v. t.) To bind; to constrain; to restrict; to limit.

Astrict (v. t.) To restrict the tenure of; as, to astrict lands. See Astriction, 4.

Astrict (a.) Concise; contracted.

Astriction (n.) The act of binding; restriction; also, obligation.

Astriction (n.) A contraction of parts by applications; the action of an astringent substance on the animal economy.

Astriction (n.) Constipation.

Astriction (n.) Astringency.

Astriction (n.) An obligation to have the grain growing on certain lands ground at a certain mill, the owner paying a toll.

Astrictive (a.) Binding; astringent.

Astrictive (n.) An astringent.

Astrictory (a.) Astrictive.

Astride (adv.) With one leg on each side, as a man when on horseback; with the legs stretched wide apart; astraddle.

Astriferous (a.) Bearing stars.

Astringed (imp. & p. p.) of Astringe

Astringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astringe

Astringe (v. t.) To bind fast; to constrict; to contract; to cause parts to draw together; to compress.

Astringe (v. t.) To bind by moral or legal obligation.

Astringency (n.) The quality of being astringent; the power of contracting the parts of the body; that quality in medicines or other substances which causes contraction of the organic textures; as, the astringency of tannin.

Astringent (a.) Drawing together the tissues; binding; contracting; -- opposed to laxative; as, astringent medicines; a butter and astringent taste; astringent fruit.

Astringent (a.) Stern; austere; as, an astringent type of virtue.

Astringent (n.) A medicine or other substance that produces contraction in the soft organic textures, and checks discharges of blood, mucus, etc.

Astringently (adv.) In an astringent manner.

Astringer (n.) A falconer who keeps a goshawk.

Astro- () The combining form of the Greek word 'a`stron, meaning star.

Astrofel (n.) Alt. of Astrofell

Astrofell (n.) A bitter herb, probably the same as aster, or starwort.

Astrogeny (n.) The creation or evolution of the stars or the heavens.

Astrognosy (n.) The science or knowledge of the stars, esp. the fixed stars.

Astrogony (n.) Same as Astrogeny.

Astrography (n.) The art of describing or delineating the stars; a description or mapping of the heavens.

Astroite (n.) A radiated stone or fossil; star-stone.

Astrolabe (n.) An instrument for observing or showing the positions of the stars. It is now disused.

Astrolabe (n.) A stereographic projection of the sphere on the plane of a great circle, as the equator, or a meridian; a planisphere.

Astrolater (n.) A worshiper of the stars.

Astrolatry (n.) The worship of the stars.

Astrolithology (n.) The science of aerolites.

Astrologer (n.) One who studies the stars; an astronomer.

Astrologer (n.) One who practices astrology; one who professes to foretell events by the aspects and situation of the stars.

Astrologian (n.) An astrologer.

Astrologic (a.) Alt. of Astrological

Astrological (a.) Of or pertaining to astrology; professing or practicing astrology.

Astrologize (v. t. & i.) To apply astrology to; to study or practice astrology.

Astrology (n.) In its etymological signification, the science of the stars; among the ancients, synonymous with astronomy; subsequently, the art of judging of the influences of the stars upon human affairs, and of foretelling events by their position and aspects.

Astromantic (a.) Of or pertaining to divination by means of the stars; astrologic.

Astrometeorology (n.) The investigation of the relation between the sun, moon, and stars, and the weather.

Astrometer (n.) An instrument for comparing the relative amount of the light of stars.

Astrometry (n.) The art of making measurements among the stars, or of determining their relative magnitudes.

Astronomer (n.) An astrologer.

Astronomer (n.) One who is versed in astronomy; one who has a knowledge of the laws of the heavenly orbs, or the principles by which their motions are regulated, with their various phenomena.

Astronomian (n.) An astrologer.

Astronomic (a.) Astronomical.

Astronomical (a.) Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methods or principles of astronomy.

Astronomize (v. i.) To study or to talk astronomy.

Astronomy (n.) Astrology.

Astronomy (n.) The science which treats of the celestial bodies, of their magnitudes, motions, distances, periods of revolution, eclipses, constitution, physical condition, and of the causes of their various phenomena.

Astronomy (n.) A treatise on, or text-book of, the science.

Astrophel (n.) See Astrofel.

Astrophotography (n.) The application of photography to the delineation of the sun, moon, and stars.

Astrophysical (a.) Pertaining to the physics of astronomical science.

Astrophyton (n.) A genus of ophiurans having the arms much branched.

Astroscope (n.) An old astronomical instrument, formed of two cones, on whose surface the constellations were delineated.

Astroscopy (n.) Observation of the stars.

Astrotheology (n.) Theology founded on observation or knowledge of the celestial bodies.

Astructive (a.) Building up; constructive; -- opposed to destructive.

Astrut (a. & adv.) Sticking out, or puffed out; swelling; in a swelling manner.

Astrut (a. & adv.) In a strutting manner; with a strutting gait.

Astucious (a.) Subtle; cunning; astute.

Astucity (n.) Craftiness; astuteness.

Astun (v. t.) To stun.

Asturian (a.) Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain.

Asturian (n.) A native of Asturias.

Astute (a.) Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.

Astylar (a.) Without columns or pilasters.

Astyllen (n.) A small dam to prevent free passage of water in an adit or level.

Asunder (adv.) Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two; separately; into or in different pieces or places.

Asura (n.) An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants.

Aswail (n.) The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India.

Asweve (v. t.) To stupefy.

Aswing (adv.) In a state of swinging.

Aswoon (adv.) In a swoon.

Aswooned (adv.) In a swoon.

Asylums (pl. ) of Asylum

Asyla (pl. ) of Asylum

Asylum (n.) A sanctuary or place of refuge and protection, where criminals and debtors found shelter, and from which they could not be forcibly taken without sacrilege.

Asylum (n.) Any place of retreat and security.

Asylum (n.) An institution for the protection or relief of some class of destitute, unfortunate, or afflicted persons; as, an asylum for the aged, for the blind, or for the insane; a lunatic asylum; an orphan asylum.

Asymmetral (a.) Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical.

Asymmetric (a.) Alt. of Asymmetrical

Asymmetrical (a.) Incommensurable.

Asymmetrical (a.) Not symmetrical; wanting proportion; esp., not bilaterally symmetrical.

Asymmetrous (a.) Asymmetrical.

Asymmetry (n.) Want of symmetry, or proportion between the parts of a thing, esp. want of bilateral symmetry.

Asymmetry (n.) Incommensurability.

Asymptote (n.) A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignable distance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it. Asymptotes may be straight lines or curves. A rectilinear asymptote may be conceived as a tangent to the curve at an infinite distance.

Asynartete (a.) Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted.

Asyndetic (a.) Characterized by the use of asyndeton; not connected by conjunctions.

Asyndeton (n.) A figure which omits the connective; as, I came, I saw, I conquered. It stands opposed to polysyndeton.

Asystole (n.) A weakening or cessation of the contractile power of the heart.

Asystolism (n.) The state or symptoms characteristic of asystole.

At (prep.) Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence, nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninth hour; at the house; to aim at a mark. It is less definite than in or on; at the house may be in or near the house. From this original import are derived all the various uses of at.

At (prep.) A relation of proximity to, or of presence in or on, something; as, at the door; at your shop; at home; at school; at hand; at sea and on land.

At (prep.) The relation of some state or condition; as, at war; at peace; at ease; at your service; at fault; at liberty; at risk; at disadvantage.

At (prep.) The relation of some employment or action; occupied with; as, at engraving; at husbandry; at play; at work; at meat (eating); except at puns.

At (prep.) The relation of a point or position in a series, or of degree, rate, or value; as, with the thermometer at 80; goods sold at a cheap price; a country estimated at 10,000 square miles; life is short at the longest.

At (prep.) The relations of time, age, or order; as, at ten o'clock; at twenty-one; at once; at first.

At (prep.) The relations of source, occasion, reason, consequence, or effect; as, at the sight; at this news; merry at anything; at this declaration; at his command; to demand, require, receive, deserve, endure at your hands.

At (prep.) Relation of direction toward an object or end; as, look at it; to point at one; to aim at a mark; to throw, strike, shoot, wink, mock, laugh at any one.

Atabal (n.) A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors.

Atacamite (n.) An oxychloride of copper, usually in emerald-green prismatic crystals.

Atafter (prep.) After.

Ataghan (n.) See Yataghan.

Atake (v. t.) To overtake.

Ataman (n.) A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks.

Ataraxia (n.) Alt. of Ataraxy

Ataraxy (n.) Perfect peace of mind, or calmness.

Ataunt (adv.) Alt. of Ataunto

Ataunto (adv.) Fully rigged, as a vessel; with all sails set; set on end or set right.

Atavic (a.) Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism.

Atavism (n.) The recurrence, or a tendency to a recurrence, of the original type of a species in the progeny of its varieties; resemblance to remote rather than to near ancestors; reversion to the original form.

Atavism (n.) The recurrence of any peculiarity or disease of an ancestor in a subsequent generation, after an intermission for a generation or two.

Ataxia (n.) Alt. of Ataxy

Ataxy (n.) Disorder; irregularity.

Ataxy (n.) Irregularity in disease, or in the functions.

Ataxy (n.) The state of disorder that characterizes nervous fevers and the nervous condition.

Ataxic (a.) Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity of functions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power in movements.

Atazir (n.) The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men.

Ate () the preterit of Eat.

Ate (n.) The goddess of mischievous folly; also, in later poets, the goddess of vengeance.

-ate () As an ending of participles or participial adjectives it is equivalent to -ed; as, situate or situated; animate or animated.

-ate () As the ending of a verb, it means to make, to cause, to act, etc.; as, to propitiate (to make propitious); to animate (to give life to).

-ate () As a noun suffix, it marks the agent; as, curate, delegate. It also sometimes marks the office or dignity; as, tribunate.

-ate () In chemistry it is used to denote the salts formed from those acids whose names end -ic (excepting binary or halogen acids); as, sulphate from sulphuric acid, nitrate from nitric acid, etc. It is also used in the case of certain basic salts.

Atechnic (a.) Without technical or artistic knowledge.

Ateles (n.) A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and having the thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita.

Atelier (n.) A workshop; a studio.

Atellan (a.) Of or pertaining to Atella, in ancient Italy; as, Atellan plays; farcical; ribald.

Atellan (n.) A farcical drama performed at Atella.

Athalamous (a.) Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as the thallus of certain lichens.

Athamaunt (n.) Adamant.

Athanasian (a.) Of or pertaining to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria in the 4th century.

Athanor (n.) A digesting furnace, formerly used by alchemists. It was so constructed as to maintain uniform and durable heat.

Athecata (n. pl.) A division of Hydroidea in which the zooids are naked, or not inclosed in a capsule. See Tubularian.

Atheism (n.) The disbelief or denial of the existence of a God, or supreme intelligent Being.

Atheism (n.) Godlessness.

Atheist (n.) One who disbelieves or denies the existence of a God, or supreme intelligent Being.

Atheist (n.) A godless person.

Atheistic (a.) Alt. of Atheistical

Atheistical (a.) Pertaining to, implying, or containing, atheism; -- applied to things; as, atheistic doctrines, opinions, or books.

Atheistical (a.) Disbelieving the existence of a God; impious; godless; -- applied to persons; as, an atheistic writer.

Atheize (v. t.) To render atheistic or godless.

Atheize (v. i.) To discourse, argue, or act as an atheist.

Atheling (n.) An Anglo-Saxon prince or nobleman; esp., the heir apparent or a prince of the royal family.

Atheneums (pl. ) of Athenaeum

Athenaea (pl. ) of Athenaeum

Atheneum (n.) Alt. of Athenaeum

Athenaeum (n.) A temple of Athene, at Athens, in which scholars and poets were accustomed to read their works and instruct students.

Athenaeum (n.) A school founded at Rome by Hadrian.

Athenaeum (n.) A literary or scientific association or club.

Athenaeum (n.) A building or an apartment where a library, periodicals, and newspapers are kept for use.

Athenian (a.) Of or pertaining to Athens, the metropolis of Greece.

Athenian (n.) A native or citizen of Athens.

Atheological (a.) Opposed to theology; atheistic.

Atheology (n.) Antagonism to theology.

Atheous (a.) Atheistic; impious.

Atheous (a.) Without God, neither accepting nor denying him.

Atherine (n.) A small marine fish of the family Atherinidae, having a silvery stripe along the sides. The European species (Atherina presbyter) is used as food. The American species (Menidia notata) is called silversides and sand smelt. See Silversides.

Athermancy (n.) Inability to transmit radiant heat; impermeability to heat.

Athermanous (a.) Not transmitting heat; -- opposed to diathermanous.

Athermous (a.) Athermanous.

Atheroid (a.) Shaped like an ear of grain.

Atheroma (n.) An encysted tumor containing curdy matter.

Atheroma (n.) A disease characterized by thickening and fatty degeneration of the inner coat of the arteries.

Atheromatous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or having the nature of, atheroma.

Athetosis (n.) A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingers and toes.

Athink (v. t.) To repent; to displease; to disgust.

Athirst (a.) Wanting drink; thirsty.

Athirst (a.) Having a keen appetite or desire; eager; longing.

Athlete (n.) One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancient Greece or Rome.

Athlete (n.) Any one trained to contend in exercises requiring great physical agility and strength; one who has great activity and strength; a champion.

Athlete (n.) One fitted for, or skilled in, intellectual contests; as, athletes of debate.

Athletic (a.) Of or pertaining to athletes or to the exercises practiced by them; as, athletic games or sports.

Athletic (a.) Befitting an athlete; strong; muscular; robust; vigorous; as, athletic Celts.

Athleticism (n.) The practice of engaging in athletic games; athletism.

Athletics (n.) The art of training by athletic exercises; the games and sports of athletes.

Athletism (n.) The state or practice of an athlete; the characteristics of an athlete.

Athwart (prep.) Across; from side to side of.

Athwart (prep.) Across the direction or course of; as, a fleet standing athwart our course.

Athwart (adv.) Across, especially in an oblique direction; sidewise; obliquely.

Athwart (adv.) Across the course; so as to thwart; perversely.

Atilt (adv.) In the manner of a tilter; in the position, or with the action, of one making a thrust.

Atilt (adv.) In the position of a cask tilted, or with one end raised. [In this sense sometimes used as an adjective.]

Atimy (n.) Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights.

-ation () A suffix forming nouns of action, and often equivalent to the verbal substantive in -ing. It sometimes has the further meanings of state, and that which results from the action. Many of these nouns have verbs in -ate; as, alliterate -ation, narrate -ation; many are derived through the French; as, alteration, visitation; and many are formed on verbs ending in the Greek formative -ize (Fr. -ise); as, civilization, demoralization.

A-tiptoe (adv.) On tiptoe; eagerly expecting.

Atlanta (n.) A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming at the surface in mid ocean. See Heteropod.

Atlantal (a.) Relating to the atlas.

Atlantal (a.) Anterior; cephalic.

Atlantean (a.) Of or pertaining to the isle Atlantis, which the ancients allege was sunk, and overwhelmed by the ocean.

Atlantean (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, Atlas; strong.

Atlantes (n. pl.) Figures or half figures of men, used as columns to support an entablature; -- called also telamones. See Caryatides.

Atlantic (a.) Of or pertaining to Mt. Atlas in Libya, and hence applied to the ocean which lies between Europe and Africa on the east and America on the west; as, the Atlantic Ocean (called also the Atlantic); the Atlantic basin; the Atlantic telegraph.

Atlantic (a.) Of or pertaining to the isle of Atlantis.

Atlantic (a.) Descended from Atlas.

Atlantides (n. pl.) The Pleiades or seven stars, fabled to have been the daughters of Atlas.

Atlases (pl. ) of Atlas

Atlas (n.) One who sustains a great burden.

Atlas (n.) The first vertebra of the neck, articulating immediately with the skull, thus sustaining the globe of the head, whence the name.

Atlas (n.) A collection of maps in a volume

Atlas (n.) A volume of plates illustrating any subject.

Atlas (n.) A work in which subjects are exhibited in a tabular from or arrangement; as, an historical atlas.

Atlas (n.) A large, square folio, resembling a volume of maps; -- called also atlas folio.

Atlas (n.) A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n.

Atlas (n.) A rich kind of satin manufactured in India.

Atmidometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the evaporation from water, ice, or snow.

Atmo (n.) The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0 Centigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris.

Atmologic (a.) Alt. of Atmological

Atmological (a.) Of or pertaining to atmology.

Atmologist (n.) One who is versed in atmology.

Atmology (n.) That branch of science which treats of the laws and phenomena of aqueous vapor.

Atmolysis (n.) The act or process of separating mingled gases of unequal diffusibility by transmission through porous substances.

Atmolyzation (n.) Separation by atmolysis.

Atmolyze (v. t.) To subject to atmolysis; to separate by atmolysis.

Atmolyzer (n.) An apparatus for effecting atmolysis.

Atmometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from a moist surface; an evaporometer.

Atmosphere (n.) The whole mass of aeriform fluid surrounding the earth; -- applied also to the gaseous envelope of any celestial orb, or other body; as, the atmosphere of Mars.

Atmosphere (n.) Any gaseous envelope or medium.

Atmosphere (n.) A supposed medium around various bodies; as, electrical atmosphere, a medium formerly supposed to surround electrical bodies.

Atmosphere (n.) The pressure or weight of the air at the sea level, on a unit of surface, or about 14.7 Ibs. to the sq. inch.

Atmosphere (n.) Any surrounding or pervading influence or condition.

Atmosphere (n.) The portion of air in any locality, or affected by a special physical or sanitary condition; as, the atmosphere of the room; a moist or noxious atmosphere.

Atmospheric (a.) Alt. of Atmospherical

Atmospherical (a.) Of or pertaining to the atmosphere; of the nature of, or resembling, the atmosphere; as, atmospheric air; the atmospheric envelope of the earth.

Atmospherical (a.) Existing in the atmosphere.

Atmospherical (a.) Caused, or operated on, by the atmosphere; as, an atmospheric effect; an atmospheric engine.

Atmospherical (a.) Dependent on the atmosphere.

Atmospherically (adv.) In relation to the atmosphere.

Atmospherology (n.) The science or a treatise on the atmosphere.

Atokous (a.) Producing only asexual individuals, as the eggs of certain annelids.

Atoll (n.) A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef, partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; a lagoon island.

Atom (n.) An ultimate indivisible particle of matter.

Atom (n.) An ultimate particle of matter not necessarily indivisible; a molecule.

Atom (n.) A constituent particle of matter, or a molecule supposed to be made up of subordinate particles.

Atom (n.) The smallest particle of matter that can enter into combination; one of the elementary constituents of a molecule.

Atom (n.) Anything extremely small; a particle; a whit.

Atom (v. t.) To reduce to atoms.

Atomic (a.) Alt. of Atomical

Atomical (a.) Of or pertaining to atoms.

Atomical (a.) Extremely minute; tiny.

Atomically (adv.) In an atomic manner; in accordance with the atomic philosophy.

Atomician (n.) An atomist.

Atomicism (n.) Atomism.

Atomicity (n.) Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (a later use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule. See Valence.

Atomism (n.) The doctrine of atoms. See Atomic philosophy, under Atomic.

Atomist (n.) One who holds to the atomic philosophy or theory.

Atomistic (a.) Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism.

Atomization (n.) The act of reducing to atoms, or very minute particles; or the state of being so reduced.

Atomization (n.) The reduction of fluids into fine spray.

Atomize (v. t.) To reduce to atoms, or to fine spray.

Atomizer (n.) One who, or that which, atomizes; esp., an instrument for reducing a liquid to spray for disinfecting, cooling, or perfuming.

Atomology (n.) The doctrine of atoms.

Atomy (n.) An atom; a mite; a pigmy.

Atomy (n.) A skeleton.

Atonable (a.) Admitting an atonement; capable of being atoned for; expiable.

At one () In concord or friendship; in agreement (with each other); as, to be, bring, make, or set, at one, i. e., to be or bring in or to a state of agreement or reconciliation.

At one () Of the same opinion; agreed; as, on these points we are at one.

At one () Together.

Atoned (imp. & p. p.) of Atone

Atoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Atone

Atone (v. i.) To agree; to be in accordance; to accord.

Atone (v. i.) To stand as an equivalent; to make reparation, compensation, or amends, for an offense or a crime.

Atone (v. t.) To set at one; to reduce to concord; to reconcile, as parties at variance; to appease.

Atone (v. t.) To unite in making.

Atone (v. t.) To make satisfaction for; to expiate.

Atonement (n.) Reconciliation; restoration of friendly relations; agreement; concord.

Atonement (n.) Satisfaction or reparation made by giving an equivalent for an injury, or by doing of suffering that which will be received in satisfaction for an offense or injury; expiation; amends; -- with for. Specifically, in theology: The expiation of sin made by the obedience, personal suffering, and death of Christ.

Atoner (n.) One who makes atonement.

Atonic (a.) Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonic disease.

Atonic (a.) Unaccented; as, an atonic syllable.

Atonic (a.) Destitute of tone vocality; surd.

Atonic (n.) A word that has no accent.

Atonic (n.) An element of speech entirely destitute of vocality, or produced by the breath alone; a nonvocal or surd consonant; a breathing.

Atonic (n.) A remedy capable of allaying organic excitement or irritation.

Atony (n.) Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ, especially of such as are contractile.

Atop (adv.) On or at the top.

Atrabilarian (a.) Alt. of Atrabilarious

Atrabilarious (a.) Affected with melancholy; atrabilious.

Atrabilarian (n.) A person much given to melancholy; a hypochondriac.

Atrabiliar (a.) Melancholy; atrabilious.

Atrabiliary (a.) Of or pertaining to atra bilis or black bile, a fluid formerly supposed to be produced by the kidneys.

Atrabiliary (a.) Melancholic or hypohondriac; atrabilious; -- from the supposed predominance of black bile, to the influence of which the ancients attributed hypochondria, melancholy, and mania.

Atrabilious (a.) Melancholic or hypochondriac; atrabiliary.

Atramentaceous (a.) Black, like ink; inky; atramental.

Atramental (a.) Alt. of Atramentous

Atramentous (a.) Of or pertaining to ink; inky; black, like ink; as, atramental galls; atramentous spots.

Atramentarious (a.) Like ink; suitable for making ink. Sulphate of iron (copperas, green vitriol) is called atramentarious, as being used in making ink.

Atrede (v. t.) To surpass in council.

Atrenne (v. t.) To outrun.

Atresia (n.) Absence or closure of a natural passage or channel of the body; imperforation.

Atrial (a.) Of or pertaining to an atrium.

Atrip (adv.) Just hove clear of the ground; -- said of the anchor.

Atrip (adv.) Sheeted home, hoisted taut up and ready for trimming; -- said of sails.

Atrip (adv.) Hoisted up and ready to be swayed across; -- said of yards.

Atria (pl. ) of Atrium

Atrium (n.) A square hall lighted from above, into which rooms open at one or more levels.

Atrium (n.) An open court with a porch or gallery around three or more sides; especially at the entrance of a basilica or other church. The name was extended in the Middle Ages to the open churchyard or cemetery.

Atrium (n.) The main part of either auricle of the heart as distinct from the auricular appendix. Also, the whole articular portion of the heart.

Atrium (n.) A cavity in ascidians into which the intestine and generative ducts open, and which also receives the water from the gills. See Ascidioidea.

Atrocha (n.) A kind of chaetopod larva in which no circles of cilia are developed.

Atrocious (a.) Extremely heinous; full of enormous wickedness; as, atrocious quilt or deeds.

Atrocious (a.) Characterized by, or expressing, great atrocity.

Atrocious (a.) Very grievous or violent; terrible; as, atrocious distempers.

Atrocities (pl. ) of Atrocity

Atrocity (n.) Enormous wickedness; extreme heinousness or cruelty.

Atrocity (n.) An atrocious or extremely cruel deed.

Atrophic (a.) Relating to atrophy.

Atrophied (p. a.) Affected with atrophy, as a tissue or organ; arrested in development at a very early stage; rudimentary.

Atrophy (n.) A wasting away from want of nourishment; diminution in bulk or slow emaciation of the body or of any part.

Atrophied (p. p.) of Atrophy

Atrophy (v. t.) To cause to waste away or become abortive; to starve or weaken.

Atrophy (v. i.) To waste away; to dwindle.

Atropia (n.) Same as Atropine.

Atropine (n.) A poisonous, white, crystallizable alkaloid, extracted from the Atropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade, and the Datura Stramonium, or thorn apple. It is remarkable for its power in dilating the pupil of the eye. Called also daturine.

Atropism (n.) A condition of the system produced by long use of belladonna.

Atropous (a.) Not inverted; orthotropous.

Atrous (a.) Coal-black; very black.

Atrypa (n.) A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurian limestones.

Attabal (n.) See Atabal.

Attacca () Attack at once; -- a direction at the end of a movement to show that the next is to follow immediately, without any pause.

Attached (imp. & p. p.) of Attach

Attaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attach

Attach (v. t.) To bind, fasten, tie, or connect; to make fast or join; as, to attach one thing to another by a string, by glue, or the like.

Attach (v. t.) To connect; to place so as to belong; to assign by authority; to appoint; as, an officer is attached to a certain regiment, company, or ship.

Attach (v. t.) To win the heart of; to connect by ties of love or self-interest; to attract; to fasten or bind by moral influence; -- with to; as, attached to a friend; attaching others to us by wealth or flattery.

Attach (v. t.) To connect, in a figurative sense; to ascribe or attribute; to affix; -- with to; as, to attach great importance to a particular circumstance.

Attach (v. t.) To take, seize, or lay hold of.

Attach (v. t.) To take by legal authority: (a) To arrest by writ, and bring before a court, as to answer for a debt, or a contempt; -- applied to a taking of the person by a civil process; being now rarely used for the arrest of a criminal. (b) To seize or take (goods or real estate) by virtue of a writ or precept to hold the same to satisfy a judgment which may be rendered in the suit. See Attachment, 4.

Attach (v. i.) To adhere; to be attached.

Attach (v. i.) To come into legal operation in connection with anything; to vest; as, dower will attach.

Attach (n.) An attachment.

Attachable (a.) Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ or precept.

Attache (v. t.) One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suite or staff. Specifically: One attached to an embassy.

Attachment (n.) The act attaching, or state of being attached; close adherence or affection; fidelity; regard; an/ passion of affection that binds a person; as, an attachment to a friend, or to a party.

Attachment (n.) That by which one thing is attached to another; connection; as, to cut the attachments of a muscle.

Attachment (n.) Something attached; some adjunct attached to an instrument, machine, or other object; as, a sewing machine attachment (i. e., a device attached to a sewing machine to enable it to do special work, as tucking, etc.).

Attachment (n.) A seizure or taking into custody by virtue of a legal process.

Attachment (n.) The writ or percept commanding such seizure or taking.

Attacked (imp. & p. p.) of Attack

Attacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attack

Attack (v. t.) To fall upon with force; to assail, as with force and arms; to assault.

Attack (v. t.) To assail with unfriendly speech or writing; to begin a controversy with; to attempt to overthrow or bring into disrepute, by criticism or satire; to censure; as, to attack a man, or his opinions, in a pamphlet.

Attack (v. t.) To set to work upon, as upon a task or problem, or some object of labor or investigation.

Attack (v. t.) To begin to affect; to begin to act upon, injuriously or destructively; to begin to decompose or waste.

Attack (v. i.) To make an onset or attack.

Attack (n.) The act of attacking, or falling on with force or violence; an onset; an assault; -- opposed to defense.

Attack (n.) An assault upon one's feelings or reputation with unfriendly or bitter words.

Attack (n.) A setting to work upon some task, etc.

Attack (n.) An access of disease; a fit of sickness.

Attack (n.) The beginning of corrosive, decomposing, or destructive action, by a chemical agent.

Attackable (a.) Capable of being attacked.

Attacker (n.) One who attacks.

Attagas (n.) Alt. of Attagen

Attagen (n.) A species of sand grouse (Syrrghaptes Pallasii) found in Asia and rarely in southern Europe.

Attaghan (n.) See Yataghan.

Attained (imp. & p. p.) of Attain

Attaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attain

Attain (v. t.) To achieve or accomplish, that is, to reach by efforts; to gain; to compass; as, to attain rest.

Attain (v. t.) To gain or obtain possession of; to acquire.

Attain (v. t.) To get at the knowledge of; to ascertain.

Attain (v. t.) To reach or come to, by progression or motion; to arrive at.

Attain (v. t.) To overtake.

Attain (v. t.) To reach in excellence or degree; to equal.

Attain (v. i.) To come or arrive, by motion, growth, bodily exertion, or efforts toward a place, object, state, etc.; to reach.

Attain (v. i.) To come or arrive, by an effort of mind.

Attain (n.) Attainment.

Attainability (n.) The quality of being attainable; attainableness.

Attainable (a.) Capable of being attained or reached by efforts of the mind or body; capable of being compassed or accomplished by efforts directed to the object.

Attainable (a.) Obtainable.

Attainableness (n.) The quality of being attainable; attainability.

Attainder (n.) The act of attainting, or the state of being attainted; the extinction of the civil rights and capacities of a person, consequent upon sentence of death or outlawry; as, an act of attainder.

Attainder (n.) A stain or staining; state of being in dishonor or condemnation.

Attainment (n.) The act of attaining; the act of arriving at or reaching; hence, the act of obtaining by efforts.

Attainment (n.) That which is attained to, or obtained by exertion; acquirement; acquisition; (pl.), mental acquirements; knowledge; as, literary and scientific attainments.

Attainted (imp. & p. p.) of Attaint

Attainting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attaint

Attaint (v. t.) To attain; to get act; to hit.

Attaint (v. t.) To find guilty; to convict; -- said esp. of a jury on trial for giving a false verdict.

Attaint (v. t.) To subject (a person) to the legal condition formerly resulting from a sentence of death or outlawry, pronounced in respect of treason or felony; to affect by attainder.

Attaint (v. t.) To accuse; to charge with a crime or a dishonorable act.

Attaint (v. t.) To affect or infect, as with physical or mental disease or with moral contagion; to taint or corrupt.

Attaint (v. t.) To stain; to obscure; to sully; to disgrace; to cloud with infamy.

Attaint (p. p.) Attainted; corrupted.

Attaint (v.) A touch or hit.

Attaint (v.) A blow or wound on the leg of a horse, made by overreaching.

Attaint (v.) A writ which lies after judgment, to inquire whether a jury has given a false verdict in any court of record; also, the convicting of the jury so tried.

Attaint (v.) A stain or taint; disgrace. See Taint.

Attaint (v.) An infecting influence.

Attaintment (n.) Attainder; attainture; conviction.

Attainture (n.) Attainder; disgrace.

Attal (n.) Same as Attle.

Attame (v. t.) To pierce; to attack.

Attame (v. t.) To broach; to begin.

Attaminate (v. t.) To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate.

Attar (n.) A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant essential oil obtained from the petals of roses.

Attask (v. t.) To take to task; to blame.

Attaste (v. t.) To taste or cause to taste.

Atte () At the.

Attempered (imp. & p. p.) of Attemper

Attempering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attemper

Attemper (v. t.) To reduce, modify, or moderate, by mixture; to temper; to regulate, as temperature.

Attemper (v. t.) To soften, mollify, or moderate; to soothe; to temper; as, to attemper rigid justice with clemency.

Attemper (v. t.) To mix in just proportion; to regulate; as, a mind well attempered with kindness and justice.

Attemper (v. t.) To accommodate; to make suitable; to adapt.

Attemperament (n.) A tempering, or mixing in due proportion.

Attemperance (n.) Temperance; attemperament.

Attemperate (a.) Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted.

Attemperate (v. t.) To attemper.

Attemperation (n.) The act of attempering or regulating.

Attemperly (adv.) Temperately.

Attemperment (n.) Attemperament.

Attempted (imp. & p. p.) of Attempt

Attempting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attempt

Attempt (v. t.) To make trial or experiment of; to try; to endeavor to do or perform (some action); to assay; as, to attempt to sing; to attempt a bold flight.

Attempt (v. t.) To try to move, by entreaty, by afflictions, or by temptations; to tempt.

Attempt (v. t.) To try to win, subdue, or overcome; as, one who attempts the virtue of a woman.

Attempt (v. t.) To attack; to make an effort or attack upon; to try to take by force; as, to attempt the enemy's camp.

Attempt (v. i.) To make an attempt; -- with upon.

Attempt (n.) A essay, trial, or endeavor; an undertaking; an attack, or an effort to gain a point; esp. an unsuccessful, as contrasted with a successful, effort.

Attemptable (a.) Capable of being attempted, tried, or attacked.

Attempter (n.) One who attempts; one who essays anything.

Attempter (n.) An assailant; also, a temper.

Attemptive (a.) Disposed to attempt; adventurous.

Attended (imp. & p. p.) of Attend

Attending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attend

Attend (v. t.) To direct the attention to; to fix the mind upon; to give heed to; to regard.

Attend (v. t.) To care for; to look after; to take charge of; to watch over.

Attend (v. t.) To go or stay with, as a companion, nurse, or servant; to visit professionally, as a physician; to accompany or follow in order to do service; to escort; to wait on; to serve.

Attend (v. t.) To be present with; to accompany; to be united or consequent to; as, a measure attended with ill effects.

Attend (v. t.) To be present at; as, to attend church, school, a concert, a business meeting.

Attend (v. t.) To wait for; to await; to remain, abide, or be in store for.

Attend (v. i.) To apply the mind, or pay attention, with a view to perceive, understand, or comply; to pay regard; to heed; to listen; -- usually followed by to.

Attend (v. i.) To accompany or be present or near at hand, in pursuance of duty; to be ready for service; to wait or be in waiting; -- often followed by on or upon.

Attend (v. i.) (with to) To take charge of; to look after; as, to attend to a matter of business.

Attend (v. i.) To wait; to stay; to delay.

Attendance (v. t.) Attention; regard; careful application.

Attendance (v. t.) The act of attending; state of being in waiting; service; ministry; the fact of being present; presence.

Attendance (v. t.) Waiting for; expectation.

Attendance (v. t.) The persons attending; a retinue; attendants.

Attendancy (n.) The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; an attendant.

Attendant (v. t.) Being present, or in the train; accompanying; in waiting.

Attendant (v. t.) Accompanying, connected with, or immediately following, as consequential; consequent; as, intemperance with all its attendant evils.

Attendant (v. t.) Depending on, or owing duty or service to; as, the widow attendant to the heir.

Attendant (n.) One who attends or accompanies in any character whatever, as a friend, companion, servant, agent, or suitor.

Attendant (n.) One who is present and takes part in the proceedings; as, an attendant at a meeting.

Attendant (n.) That which accompanies; a concomitant.

Attendant (n.) One who owes duty or service to, or depends on, another.

Attendement (n.) Intent.

Attender (n.) One who, or that which, attends.

Attendment (n.) An attendant circumstance.

Attent (v. t.) Attentive; heedful.

Attent (n.) Attention; heed.

Attentate (n.) Alt. of Attentat

Attentat (n.) An attempt; an assault.

Attentat (n.) A proceeding in a court of judicature, after an inhibition is decreed.

Attentat (n.) Any step wrongly innovated or attempted in a suit by an inferior judge.

Attention (n.) The act or state of attending or heeding; the application of the mind to any object of sense, representation, or thought; notice; exclusive or special consideration; earnest consideration, thought, or regard; obedient or affectionate heed; the supposed power or faculty of attending.

Attention (n.) An act of civility or courtesy; care for the comfort and pleasure of others; as, attentions paid to a stranger.

Attentive (a.) Heedful; intent; observant; regarding with care or attention.

Attentive (a.) Heedful of the comfort of others; courteous.

Attently (adv.) Attentively.

Attenuant (a.) Making thin, as fluids; diluting; rendering less dense and viscid; diluent.

Attenuant (n.) A medicine that thins or dilutes the fluids; a diluent.

Attenuated (imp. & p. p.) of Attenuate

Attenuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attenuate

Attenuate (v. t.) To make thin or slender, as by mechanical or chemical action upon inanimate objects, or by the effects of starvation, disease, etc., upon living bodies.

Attenuate (v. t.) To make thin or less consistent; to render less viscid or dense; to rarefy. Specifically: To subtilize, as the humors of the body, or to break them into finer parts.

Attenuate (v. t.) To lessen the amount, force, or value of; to make less complex; to weaken.

Attenuate (v. i.) To become thin, slender, or fine; to grow less; to lessen.

Attenuate (a.) Alt. of Attenuated

Attenuated (a.) Made thin or slender.

Attenuated (a.) Made thin or less viscid; rarefied.

Attenuation (n.) The act or process of making slender, or the state of being slender; emaciation.

Attenuation (n.) The act of attenuating; the act of making thin or less dense, or of rarefying, as fluids or gases.

Attenuation (n.) The process of weakening in intensity; diminution of virulence; as, the attenuation of virus.

Atter (n.) Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore.

Attercop (n.) A spider.

Attercop (n.) A peevish, ill-natured person.

Atterrate (v. t.) To fill up with alluvial earth.

Atterration (n.) The act of filling up with earth, or of forming land with alluvial earth.

Attested (imp. & p. p.) of Attest

Attesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attest

Attest (v. t.) To bear witness to; to certify; to affirm to be true or genuine; as, to attest the truth of a writing, a copy of record.

Attest (v. t.) To give proof of; to manifest; as, the ruins of Palmyra attest its ancient magnificence.

Attest (v. t.) To call to witness; to invoke.

Attest (n.) Witness; testimony; attestation.

Attestation (n.) The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or official declaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence. The truth appears from the attestation of witnesses, or of the proper officer. The subscription of a name to a writing as a witness, is an attestation.

Attestative (a.) Of the nature of attestation.

Attester (n.) Alt. of Attestor

Attestor (n.) One who attests.

Attestive (a.) Attesting; furnishing evidence.

Attic (a.) Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, its principal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic of the Athenians; classical; refined.

Attic (a.) A low story above the main order or orders of a facade, in the classical styles; -- a term introduced in the 17th century. Hence:

Attic (a.) A room or rooms behind that part of the exterior; all the rooms immediately below the roof.

Attic (a.) An Athenian; an Athenian author.

Attical (a.) Attic.

Atticism (n.) A favoring of, or attachment to, the Athenians.

Atticism (n.) The style and idiom of the Greek language, used by the Athenians; a concise and elegant expression.

Atticize (v. t.) To conform or make conformable to the language, customs, etc., of Attica.

Atticize (v. i.) To side with the Athenians.

Atticize (v. i.) To use the Attic idiom or style; to conform to the customs or modes of thought of the Athenians.

Attiguous (a.) Touching; bordering; contiguous.

Attinge (v. t.) To touch lightly.

Attired (imp. & p. p.) of Attire

Attiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attire

Attire (v. t.) To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant or splendid garments.

Attire (n.) Dress; clothes; headdress; anything which dresses or adorns; esp., ornamental clothing.

Attire (n.) The antlers, or antlers and scalp, of a stag or buck.

Attire (n.) The internal parts of a flower, included within the calyx and the corolla.

Attired (p. p.) Provided with antlers, as a stag.

Attirement (n.) Attire; adornment.

Attirer (n.) One who attires.

Attitude (n.) The posture, action, or disposition of a figure or a statue.

Attitude (n.) The posture or position of a person or an animal, or the manner in which the parts of his body are disposed; position assumed or studied to serve a purpose; as, a threatening attitude; an attitude of entreaty.

Attitude (n.) Fig.: Position as indicating action, feeling, or mood; as, in times of trouble let a nation preserve a firm attitude; one's mental attitude in respect to religion.

Attitudinal (a.) Relating to attitude.

Attitudinarian (n.) One who attitudinizes; a posture maker.

Attitudinarianism (n.) A practicing of attitudes; posture making.

Attitudinize (v. i.) To assume affected attitudes; to strike an attitude; to pose.

Attitudinizer (n.) One who practices attitudes.

Attle (n.) Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing little or no ore.

Attollent (a.) Lifting up; raising; as, an attollent muscle.

Attonce (adv.) At once; together.

Attone (adv.) See At one.

Attorn (v. t.) To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord to another. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, upon the alienation of the estate.

Attorn (v. t.) To agree to become tenant to one to whom reversion has been granted.

Attorneys (pl. ) of Attorney

Attorney (n.) A substitute; a proxy; an agent.

Attorney (n.) One who is legally appointed by another to transact any business for him; an attorney in fact.

Attorney (n.) A legal agent qualified to act for suitors and defendants in legal proceedings; an attorney at law.

Attorney (v. t.) To perform by proxy; to employ as a proxy.

Attorney-general (n.) The chief law officer of the state, empowered to act in all litigation in which the law-executing power is a party, and to advise this supreme executive whenever required.

Attorneyism (n.) The practice or peculiar cleverness of attorneys.

Attorneyship (n.) The office or profession of an attorney; agency for another.

Attornment (n.) The act of a feudatory, vassal, or tenant, by which he consents, upon the alienation of an estate, to receive a new lord or superior, and transfers to him his homage and service; the agreement of a tenant to acknowledge the purchaser of the estate as his landlord.

Attracted (imp. & p. p.) of Attract

Attracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attract

Attract (v. t.) To draw to, or cause to tend to; esp. to cause to approach, adhere, or combine; or to cause to resist divulsion, separation, or decomposition.

Attract (v. t.) To draw by influence of a moral or emotional kind; to engage or fix, as the mind, attention, etc.; to invite or allure; as, to attract admirers.

Attract (n.) Attraction.

Attractability (n.) The quality or fact of being attractable.

Attractable (a.) Capable of being attracted; subject to attraction.

Attracter (n.) One who, or that which, attracts.

Attractile (a.) Having power to attract.

Attracting (a.) That attracts.

Attraction (n.) An invisible power in a body by which it draws anything to itself; the power in nature acting mutually between bodies or ultimate particles, tending to draw them together, or to produce their cohesion or combination, and conversely resisting separation.

Attraction (n.) The act or property of attracting; the effect of the power or operation of attraction.

Attraction (n.) The power or act of alluring, drawing to, inviting, or engaging; an attractive quality; as, the attraction of beauty or eloquence.

Attraction (n.) That which attracts; an attractive object or feature.

Attractive (a.) Having the power or quality of attracting or drawing; as, the attractive force of bodies.

Attractive (a.) Attracting or drawing by moral influence or pleasurable emotion; alluring; inviting; pleasing.

Attractive (n.) That which attracts or draws; an attraction; an allurement.

Attractivity (n.) The quality or degree of attractive power.

Attractor (n.) One who, or that which, attracts.

Attrahent (v. t.) Attracting; drawing; attractive.

Attrahent (n.) That which attracts, as a magnet.

Attrahent (n.) A substance which, by irritating the surface, excites action in the part to which it is applied, as a blister, an epispastic, a sinapism.

Attrap (v. t.) To entrap; to insnare.

Attrap (v. t.) To adorn with trapping; to array.

Attrectation (n.) Frequent handling or touching.

Attributable (a.) Capable of being attributed; ascribable; imputable.

Attributed (imp. & p. p.) of Attribute

Attributing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attribute

Attribute (v. t.) To ascribe; to consider (something) as due or appropriate (to); to refer, as an effect to a cause; to impute; to assign; to consider as belonging (to).

Attribute (n.) That which is attributed; a quality which is considered as belonging to, or inherent in, a person or thing; an essential or necessary property or characteristic.

Attribute (n.) Reputation.

Attribute (n.) A conventional symbol of office, character, or identity, added to any particular figure; as, a club is the attribute of Hercules.

Attribute (n.) Quality, etc., denoted by an attributive; an attributive adjunct or adjective.

Attribution (n.) The act of attributing or ascribing, as a quality, character, or function, to a thing or person, an effect to a cause.

Attribution (n.) That which is ascribed or attributed.

Attributive (a.) Attributing; pertaining to, expressing, or assigning an attribute; of the nature of an attribute.

Attributive (n.) A word that denotes an attribute; esp. a modifying word joined to a noun; an adjective or adjective phrase.

Attributively (adv.) In an attributive manner.

Attrite (a.) Rubbed; worn by friction.

Attrite (a.) Repentant from fear of punishment; having attrition of grief for sin; -- opposed to contrite.

Attrition (n.) The act of rubbing together; friction; the act of wearing by friction, or by rubbing substances together; abrasion.

Attrition (n.) The state of being worn.

Attrition (n.) Grief for sin arising only from fear of punishment or feelings of shame. See Contrition.

Attry (a.) Poisonous; malignant; malicious.

Attuned (imp. & p. p.) of Attune

Attuning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attune

Attune (v. t.) To tune or put in tune; to make melodious; to adjust, as one sound or musical instrument to another; as, to attune the voice to a harp.

Attune (v. t.) To arrange fitly; to make accordant.

Atwain (adv.) In twain; asunder.

Atween (adv. or prep.) Between.

Atwirl (a. & adv.) Twisted; distorted; awry.

Atwite (v. t.) To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid.

Atwixt (adv.) Betwixt.

Atwo (adv.) In two; in twain; asunder.

Atypic (a.) Alt. of Atypical

Atypical (a.) That has no type; devoid of typical character; irregular; unlike the type.

Aubade (n.) An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from an evening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive of morning.

Aubaine (n.) Succession to the goods of a stranger not naturalized.

Aube (n.) An alb.

Auberge (n.) An inn.

Aubin (n.) A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; -- commonly called a Canterbury gallop.

Auburn (a.) Flaxen-colored.

Auburn (a.) Reddish brown.

Auchenium (n.) The part of the neck nearest the back.

Auctary (n.) That which is superadded; augmentation.

Auction (n.) A public sale of property to the highest bidder, esp. by a person licensed and authorized for the purpose; a vendue.

Auction (n.) The things sold by auction or put up to auction.

Auction (v. t.) To sell by auction.

Auctionary (a.) Of or pertaining to an auction or an auctioneer.

Auctioneer (n.) A person who sells by auction; a person whose business it is to dispose of goods or lands by public sale to the highest or best bidder.

Auctioneer (v. t.) To sell by auction; to auction.

Aucupation (n.) Birdcatching; fowling.

Audacious (a.) Daring; spirited; adventurous.

Audacious (a.) Contemning the restraints of law, religion, or decorum; bold in wickedness; presumptuous; impudent; insolent.

Audacious (a.) Committed with, or proceedings from, daring effrontery or contempt of law, morality, or decorum.

Audaciously (adv.) In an audacious manner; with excess of boldness; impudently.

Audaciousness (n.) The quality of being audacious; impudence; audacity.

Audacity (n.) Daring spirit, resolution, or confidence; venturesomeness.

Audacity (n.) Reckless daring; presumptuous impudence; -- implying a contempt of law or moral restraints.

Audibility (n.) The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audible capacity.

Audible (a.) Capable of being heard; loud enough to be heard; actually heard; as, an audible voice or whisper.

Audible (n.) That which may be heard.

Audibleness (n.) The quality of being audible.

Audibly (adv.) So as to be heard.

Audience (a.) The act of hearing; attention to sounds.

Audience (a.) Admittance to a hearing; a formal interview, esp. with a sovereign or the head of a government, for conference or the transaction of business.

Audience (a.) An auditory; an assembly of hearers. Also applied by authors to their readers.

Audient (a.) Listening; paying attention; as, audient souls.

Audient (n.) A hearer; especially a catechumen in the early church.

Audiometer (n.) An instrument by which the power of hearing can be gauged and recorded on a scale.

Audiphone (n.) An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to the auditory nerve and enables the deaf to hear more or less distinctly; a dentiphone.

Audit (a.) An audience; a hearing.

Audit (a.) An examination in general; a judicial examination.

Audit (a.) The result of such an examination, or an account as adjusted by auditors; final account.

Audit (a.) A general receptacle or receiver.

Audited (imp. & p. p.) of Audit

Auditing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Audit

Audit (v. t.) To examine and adjust, as an account or accounts; as, to audit the accounts of a treasure, or of parties who have a suit depending in court.

Audit (v. i.) To settle or adjust an account.

Audita querela () A writ which lies for a party against whom judgment is recovered, but to whom good matter of discharge has subsequently accrued which could not have been availed of to prevent such judgment.

Audition (n.) The act of hearing or listening; hearing.

Auditive (a.) Of or pertaining to hearing; auditory.

Auditor (a.) A hearer or listener.

Auditor (a.) A person appointed and authorized to audit or examine an account or accounts, compare the charges with the vouchers, examine the parties and witnesses, allow or reject charges, and state the balance.

Auditor (a.) One who hears judicially, as in an audience court.

Auditorial (a.) Auditory.

Auditorium (n.) The part of a church, theater, or other public building, assigned to the audience.

Auditorship (n.) The office or function of auditor.

Auditory (a.) Of or pertaining to hearing, or to the sense or organs of hearing; as, the auditory nerve. See Ear.

Auditory (n.) An assembly of hearers; an audience.

Auditory (n.) An auditorium.

Auditress (n.) A female hearer.

Auditual (a.) Auditory.

Auf (n.) A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf.

Au fait () Expert; skillful; well instructed.

Augean (a.) Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stable contained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Hercules cleansed it in a single day.

Augean (a.) Hence: Exceedingly filthy or corrupt.

Auger (n.) A carpenter's tool for boring holes larger than those bored by a gimlet. It has a handle placed crosswise by which it is turned with both hands. A pod auger is one with a straight channel or groove, like the half of a bean pod. A screw auger has a twisted blade, by the spiral groove of which the chips are discharge.

Auger (n.) An instrument for boring or perforating soils or rocks, for determining the quality of soils, or the nature of the rocks or strata upon which they lie, and for obtaining water.

Auget (n.) A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery, or place where the slow match is applied.

Aught (n.) Alt. of Aucht

Aucht (n.) Property; possession.

Aught (n.) Anything; any part.

Aught (adv.) At all; in any degree.

Augite (n.) A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color, occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead of the general term pyroxene.

Augitic (a.) Pertaining to, or like, augite; containing augite as a principal constituent; as, augitic rocks.

Augmented (imp. & p. p.) of Augment

Augmenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Augment

Augment (v. t.) To enlarge or increase in size, amount, or degree; to swell; to make bigger; as, to augment an army by reeforcements; rain augments a stream; impatience augments an evil.

Augment (v. t.) To add an augment to.

Augment (v. i.) To increase; to grow larger, stronger, or more intense; as, a stream augments by rain.

Augment (n.) Enlargement by addition; increase.

Augment (n.) A vowel prefixed, or a lengthening of the initial vowel, to mark past time, as in Greek and Sanskrit verbs.

Augmentable (a.) Capable of augmentation.

Augmentation (n.) The act or process of augmenting, or making larger, by addition, expansion, or dilation; increase.

Augmentation (n.) The state of being augmented; enlargement.

Augmentation (n.) The thing added by way of enlargement.

Augmentation (n.) A additional charge to a coat of arms, given as a mark of honor.

Augmentation (n.) The stage of a disease in which the symptoms go on increasing.

Augmentation (n.) In counterpoint and fugue, a repetition of the subject in tones of twice the original length.

Augmentative (a.) Having the quality or power of augmenting; expressing augmentation.

Augmentative (n.) A word which expresses with augmented force the idea or the properties of the term from which it is derived; as, dullard, one very dull. Opposed to diminutive.

Augmenter (n.) One who, or that which, augments or increases anything.

Augrim (n.) See Algorism.

Augur (n.) An official diviner who foretold events by the singing, chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omens derived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds, or unusual occurrences.

Augur (n.) One who foretells events by omens; a soothsayer; a diviner; a prophet.

Augured (imp. & p. p.) of Augur

Auguring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Augur

Augur (v. i.) To conjecture from signs or omens; to prognosticate; to foreshow.

Augur (v. i.) To anticipate, to foretell, or to indicate a favorable or an unfavorable issue; as, to augur well or ill.

Augur (v. t.) To predict or foretell, as from signs or omens; to betoken; to presage; to infer.

Augural (a.) Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous; significant; as, an augural staff; augural books.

Augurate (v. t. & i.) To make or take auguries; to augur; to predict.

Augurate (n.) The office of an augur.

Auguration (n.) The practice of augury.

Augurer (n.) An augur.

Augurial (a.) Relating to augurs or to augury.

Augurist (n.) An augur.

Angurize (v. t.) To augur.

Augurous (a.) Full of augury; foreboding.

Augurship (n.) The office, or period of office, of an augur.

Auguries (pl. ) of Augury

Augury (n.) The art or practice of foretelling events by observing the actions of birds, etc.; divination.

Augury (n.) An omen; prediction; prognostication; indication of the future; presage.

Augury (n.) A rite, ceremony, or observation of an augur.

August (a.) Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having exalted birth, character, state, or authority.

August (a.) The eighth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.

Augustan (n.) Of or pertaining to Augustus Caesar or to his times.

Augustan (n.) Of or pertaining to the town of Augsburg.

Augustine (n.) Alt. of Augustinian

Augustinian (n.) A member of one of the religious orders called after St. Augustine; an Austin friar.

Augustinian (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Augustine, bishop of Hippo in Northern Africa (b. 354 -- d. 430), or to his doctrines.

Augustinian (n.) One of a class of divines, who, following St. Augustine, maintain that grace by its nature is effectual absolutely and creatively, not relatively and conditionally.

Augustinianism (n.) Alt. of Augustinism

Augustinism (n.) The doctrines held by Augustine or by the Augustinians.

Augustly (adv.) In an august manner.

Augustness (n.) The quality of being august; dignity of mien; grandeur; magnificence.

Auk (n.) A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of the family Alcidae. The great auk, now extinct, is Alca (/ Plautus) impennis. The razor-billed auk is A. torda. See Puffin, Guillemot, and Murre.

Aukward (a.) See Awkward.

Aularian (a.) Relating to a hall.

Aularian (n.) At Oxford, England, a member of a hall, distinguished from a collegian.

Auld (a.) Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh.

Auld lang syne () A Scottish phrase used in recalling recollections of times long since past.

Auletic (a.) Of or pertaining to a pipe (flute) or piper.

Aulic (a.) Pertaining to a royal court.

Aulic (n.) The ceremony observed in conferring the degree of doctor of divinity in some European universities. It begins by a harangue of the chancellor addressed to the young doctor, who then receives the cap, and presides at the disputation (also called the aulic).

Auln (n.) An ell. [Obs.] See Aune.

Aulnage (n.) Alt. of Aulnager

Aulnager (n.) See Alnage and Alnager.

Aum (n.) Same as Aam.

Aumail (v. t.) To figure or variegate.

Aumbry (n.) Same as Ambry.

Aumery (n.) A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if a place for alms.

Auncel (n.) A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerly used in England.

Auncetry (n.) Ancestry.

Aune (n.) A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (at Paris, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter.

Aunt (n.) The sister of one's father or mother; -- correlative to nephew or niece. Also applied to an uncle's wife.

Aunt (n.) An old woman; and old gossip.

Aunt (n.) A bawd, or a prostitute.

Auntter (n.) Adventure; hap.

Aunter (v. t.) Alt. of Auntre

Auntre (v. t.) To venture; to dare.

Auntie (n.) Alt. of Aunty

Aunty (n.) A familiar name for an aunt. In the southern United States a familiar term applied to aged negro women.

Auntrous (a.) Adventurous.

Aurae (pl. ) of Aura

Aura (n.) Any subtile, invisible emanation, effluvium, or exhalation from a substance, as the aroma of flowers, the odor of the blood, a supposed fertilizing emanation from the pollen of flowers, etc.

Aura (n.) The peculiar sensation, as of a light vapor, or cold air, rising from the trunk or limbs towards the head, a premonitory symptom of epilepsy or hysterics.

Aural (a.) Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura.

Aural (a.) Of or pertaining to the ear; as, aural medicine and surgery.

Aurantiaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the Aurantiaceae, an order of plants (formerly considered natural), of which the orange is the type.

Aurate (n.) A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or potassium.

Aurated (a.) Resembling or containing gold; gold-colored; gilded.

Aurated (a.) Combined with auric acid.

Aurated (a.) Having ears. See Aurited.

Aureate (a.) Golden; gilded.

Aurelia (n.) The chrysalis, or pupa of an insect, esp. when reflecting a brilliant golden color, as that of some of the butterflies.

Aurelia (n.) A genus of jellyfishes. See Discophora.

Aurelian (a.) Of or pertaining to the aurelia.

Aurelian (n.) An amateur collector and breeder of insects, esp. of butterflies and moths; a lepidopterist.

Aureola (n.) Alt. of Aureole

Aureole (n.) A celestial crown or accidental glory added to the bliss of heaven, as a reward to those (as virgins, martyrs, preachers, etc.) who have overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil.

Aureole (n.) The circle of rays, or halo of light, with which painters surround the figure and represent the glory of Christ, saints, and others held in special reverence.

Aureole (n.) A halo, actual or figurative.

Aureole (n.) See Areola, 2.

Auric (a.) Of or pertaining to gold.

Auric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as, auric oxide; auric chloride.

Aurichalceous (a.) Brass-colored.

Aurichalcite (n.) A hydrous carbonate of copper and zinc, found in pale green or blue crystalline aggregations. It yields a kind of brass on reduction.

Auricle (n.) The external ear, or that part of the ear which is prominent from the head.

Auricle (n.) The chamber, or one of the two chambers, of the heart, by which the blood is received and transmitted to the ventricle or ventricles; -- so called from its resemblance to the auricle or external ear of some quadrupeds. See Heart.

Auricle (n.) An angular or ear-shaped lobe.

Auricle (n.) An instrument applied to the ears to give aid in hearing; a kind of ear trumpet.

Auricled (a.) Having ear-shaped appendages or lobes; auriculate; as, auricled leaves.

Auriculae (pl. ) of Auricula

Auriculas (pl. ) of Auricula

Auricula (n.) A species of Primula, or primrose, called also, from the shape of its leaves, bear's-ear.

Auricula (n.) A species of Hirneola (H. auricula), a membranaceous fungus, called also auricula Judae, or Jew's-ear.

Auricula (n.) A genus of air-breathing mollusks mostly found near the sea, where the water is brackish

Auricula (n.) One of the five arched processes of the shell around the jaws of a sea urchin.

Auricular (a.) Of or pertaining to the ear, or to the sense of hearing; as, auricular nerves.

Auricular (a.) Told in the ear, i. e., told privately; as, auricular confession to the priest.

Auricular (a.) Recognized by the ear; known by the sense of hearing; as, auricular evidence.

Auricular (a.) Received by the ear; known by report.

Auricular (a.) Pertaining to the auricles of the heart.

Auricularia (n. pl.) A kind of holothurian larva, with soft, blunt appendages. See Illustration in Appendix.

Auricularly (adv.) In an auricular manner.

Auriculars (n. pl.) A circle of feathers surrounding the opening of the ear of birds.

Auriculate (a.) Alt. of Auriculated

Auriculated (a.) Having ears or appendages like ears; eared. Esp.: (a) (Bot.) Having lobes or appendages like the ear; shaped like the ear; auricled. (b) (Zool.) Having an angular projection on one or both sides, as in certain bivalve shells, the foot of some gastropods, etc.

Auriferous (a.) Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold.

Auriflamme (n.) See Oriflamme.

Auriform (a.) Having the form of the human ear; ear-shaped.

Auriga (n.) The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northern hemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains the bright star Capella.

Aurigal (a.) Of or pertaining to a chariot.

Aurigation (n.) The act of driving a chariot or a carriage.

Aurigraphy (n.) The art of writing with or in gold.

Aurin (n.) A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, in commerce, yellow corallin.

Auriphrygiate (a.) Embroidered or decorated with gold.

Auripigment (n.) See Orpiment.

Auriscalp (n.) An earpick.

Auriscope (n.) An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.

Auriscopy (n.) Examination of the ear by the aid of the auriscope.

Aurist (n.) One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.

Aurited (a.) Having lobes like the ear; auriculate.

Aurivorous (a.) Gold-devouring.

Aurocephalous (a.) Having a gold-colored head.

Aurochloride (n.) The trichloride of gold combination with the chloride of another metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate.

Aurochs (n.) The European bison (Bison bonasus, / Europaeus), once widely distributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in the Lithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus. It is distinct from the Urus of Caesar, with which it has often been confused.

Aurocyanide (n.) A double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; -- called also cyanaurate.

Auroras (pl. ) of Aurora

Aurorae (pl. ) of Aurora

Aurora (n.) The rising light of the morning; the dawn of day; the redness of the sky just before the sun rises.

Aurora (n.) The rise, dawn, or beginning.

Aurora (n.) The Roman personification of the dawn of day; the goddess of the morning. The poets represented her a rising out of the ocean, in a chariot, with rosy fingers dropping gentle dew.

Aurora (n.) A species of crowfoot.

Aurora (n.) The aurora borealis or aurora australis (northern or southern lights).

Auroral (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or the northern lights); rosy.

Aurous (a.) Containing gold.

Aurous (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its lower valence; as, aurous oxide.

Aurum (n.) Gold.

Auscult (v. i. & t.) To auscultate.

Auscultate (v. i. & t.) To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation.

Auscultation (n.) The act of listening or hearkening to.

Auscultation (n.) An examination by listening either directly with the ear (immediate auscultation) applied to parts of the body, as the abdomen; or with the stethoscope (mediate auscultation), in order to distinguish sounds recognized as a sign of health or of disease.

Auscultator (n.) One who practices auscultation.

Auscultatory (a.) Of or pertaining to auscultation.

Ausonian (a.) Italian.

Auspicate (a.) Auspicious.

Auspicate (v. t.) To foreshow; to foretoken.

Auspicate (v. t.) To give a favorable turn to in commencing; to inaugurate; -- a sense derived from the Roman practice of taking the auspicium, or inspection of birds, before undertaking any important business.

Auspices (pl. ) of Auspice

Auspice (a.) A divining or taking of omens by observing birds; an omen as to an undertaking, drawn from birds; an augury; an omen or sign in general; an indication as to the future.

Auspice (a.) Protection; patronage and care; guidance.

Auspicial (a.) Of or pertaining to auspices; auspicious.

Auspicious (a.) Having omens or tokens of a favorable issue; giving promise of success, prosperity, or happiness; predicting good; as, an auspicious beginning.

Auspicious (a.) Prosperous; fortunate; as, auspicious years.

Auspicious (a.) Favoring; favorable; propitious; -- applied to persons or things.

Auster (n.) The south wind.

Austere () Sour and astringent; rough to the state; having acerbity; as, an austere crab apple; austere wine.

Austere () Severe in modes of judging, or living, or acting; rigid; rigorous; stern; as, an austere man, look, life.

Austere () Unadorned; unembellished; severely simple.

Austerely (adv.) Severely; rigidly; sternly.

Austereness (n.) Harshness or astringent sourness to the taste; acerbity.

Austereness (n.) Severity; strictness; austerity.

Austerities (pl. ) of Austerity

Austerity (n.) Sourness and harshness to the taste.

Austerity (n.) Severity of manners or life; extreme rigor or strictness; harsh discipline.

Austerity (n.) Plainness; freedom from adornment; severe simplicity.

Austin (a.) Augustinian; as, Austin friars.

Austral (a.) Southern; lying or being in the south; as, austral land; austral ocean.

Australasian (a.) Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions.

Australasian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Australasia.

Australian (a.) Of or pertaining to Australia.

Australian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Australia.

Australize (v. i.) To tend toward the south pole, as a magnet.

Austrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants.

Austrian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Austria.

Austrine (n.) Southern; southerly; austral.

Austro-Hungarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the monarchy composed of Austria and Hungary.

Austromancy (n.) Soothsaying, or prediction of events, from observation of the winds.

Autarchy (n.) Self-sufficiency.

Authentic (n.) Having a genuine original or authority, in opposition to that which is false, fictitious, counterfeit, or apocryphal; being what it purports to be; genuine; not of doubtful origin; real; as, an authentic paper or register.

Authentic (n.) Authoritative.

Authentic (n.) Of approved authority; true; trustworthy; credible; as, an authentic writer; an authentic portrait; authentic information.

Authentic (n.) Vested with all due formalities, and legally attested.

Authentic (n.) Having as immediate relation to the tonic, in distinction from plagal, which has a correspondent relation to the dominant in the octave below the tonic.

Authentic (n.) An original (book or document).

Authentical (a.) Authentic.

Authentically (adv.) In an authentic manner; with the requisite or genuine authority.

Authenticalness (n.) The quality of being authentic; authenticity.

Authenticated (imp. & p. p.) of Authenticate

Authenticating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Authenticate

Authenticate (v. t.) To render authentic; to give authority to, by the proof, attestation, or formalities required by law, or sufficient to entitle to credit.

Authenticate (v. t.) To prove authentic; to determine as real and true; as, to authenticate a portrait.

Authenticity (n.) The quality of being authentic or of established authority for truth and correctness.

Authenticity (n.) Genuineness; the quality of being genuine or not corrupted from the original.

Authenticly (adv.) Authentically.

Authenticness (n.) The quality of being authentic; authenticity.

Authentics (n.) A collection of the Novels or New Constitutions of Justinian, by an anonymous author; -- so called on account of its authenticity.

Author (n.) The beginner, former, or first mover of anything; hence, the efficient cause of a thing; a creator; an originator.

Author (n.) One who composes or writes a book; a composer, as distinguished from an editor, translator, or compiler.

Author (n.) The editor of a periodical.

Author (n.) An informant.

Author (v. t.) To occasion; to originate.

Author (v. t.) To tell; to say; to declare.

Authoress (n.) A female author.

Authorial (a.) Of or pertaining to an author.

Authorism (n.) Authorship.

Authoritative (a.) Having, or proceeding from, due authority; entitled to obedience, credit, or acceptance; determinate; commanding.

Authoritative (a.) Having an air of authority; positive; dictatorial; peremptory; as, an authoritative tone.

Authorities (pl. ) of Authority

Authority (n.) Legal or rightful power; a right to command or to act; power exercised buy a person in virtue of his office or trust; dominion; jurisdiction; authorization; as, the authority of a prince over subjects, and of parents over children; the authority of a court.

Authority (n.) Government; the persons or the body exercising power or command; as, the local authorities of the States; the military authorities.

Authority (n.) The power derived from opinion, respect, or esteem; influence of character, office, or station, or mental or moral superiority, and the like; claim to be believed or obeyed; as, an historian of no authority; a magistrate of great authority.

Authority (n.) That which, or one who, is claimed or appealed to in support of opinions, actions, measures, etc.

Authority (n.) Testimony; witness.

Authority (n.) A precedent; a decision of a court, an official declaration, or an opinion, saying, or statement worthy to be taken as a precedent.

Authority (n.) A book containing such a statement or opinion, or the author of the book.

Authority (n.) Justification; warrant.

Authorizable (a.) Capable of being authorized.

Authorization (n.) The act of giving authority or legal power; establishment by authority; sanction or warrant.

Authorized (imp. & p. p.) of Authorize

Authorizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Authorize

Authorize (v. t.) To clothe with authority, warrant, or legal power; to give a right to act; to empower; as, to authorize commissioners to settle a boundary.

Authorize (v. t.) To make legal; to give legal sanction to; to legalize; as, to authorize a marriage.

Authorize (v. t.) To establish by authority, as by usage or public opinion; to sanction; as, idioms authorized by usage.

Authorize (v. t.) To sanction or confirm by the authority of some one; to warrant; as, to authorize a report.

Authorize (v. t.) To justify; to furnish a ground for.

Authorized (a.) Possessed of or endowed with authority; as, an authorized agent.

Authorized (a.) Sanctioned by authority.

Authorizer (n.) One who authorizes.

Authorless (a.) Without an author; without authority; anonymous.

Authorly (a.) Authorial.

Authorship (n.) The quality or state of being an author; function or dignity of an author.

Authorship (n.) Source; origin; origination; as, the authorship of a book or review, or of an act, or state of affairs.

Authotype (n.) A type or block containing a facsimile of an autograph.

Auto- () A combining form, with the meaning of self, one's self, one's own, itself, its own.

Autobiographer (n.) One who writers his own life or biography.

Autobiographic (a.) Alt. of Autobiographical

Autobiographical (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, autobiography; as, an autobiographical sketch.

Autobiographist (n.) One who writes his own life; an autobiographer.

Autobiographies (pl. ) of Autobiography

Autobiography (n.) A biography written by the subject of it; memoirs of one's life written by one's self.

Autocarpous (a.) Alt. of Autocarpian

Autocarpian (a.) Consisting of the ripened pericarp with no other parts adnate to it, as a peach, a poppy capsule, or a grape.

Autocephalous (a.) Having its own head; independent of episcopal or patriarchal jurisdiction, as certain Greek churches.

Autochronograph (n.) An instrument for the instantaneous self-recording or printing of time.

Authochthons (pl. ) of Autochthon

Autochthones (pl. ) of Autochthon

Autochthon (n.) One who is supposed to rise or spring from the ground or the soil he inhabits; one of the original inhabitants or aborigines; a native; -- commonly in the plural. This title was assumed by the ancient Greeks, particularly the Athenians.

Autochthon (n.) That which is original to a particular country, or which had there its origin.

Autochthonal (a.) Alt. of Autochthonous

Authochthonic (a.) Alt. of Autochthonous

Autochthonous (a.) Aboriginal; indigenous; native.

Autochthonism (n.) The state of being autochthonal.

Autochthony (n.) An aboriginal or autochthonous condition.

Autoclave (n.) A kind of French stewpan with a steam-tight lid.

Autocracies (pl. ) of Autocracy

Autocracy (n.) Independent or self-derived power; absolute or controlling authority; supremacy.

Autocracy (n.) Supreme, uncontrolled, unlimited authority, or right of governing in a single person, as of an autocrat.

Autocracy (n.) Political independence or absolute sovereignty (of a state); autonomy.

Autocracy (n.) The action of the vital principle, or of the instinctive powers, toward the preservation of the individual; also, the vital principle.

Autocrat (a.) An absolute sovereign; a monarch who holds and exercises the powers of government by claim of absolute right, not subject to restriction; as, Autocrat of all the Russias (a title of the Czar).

Autocrat (a.) One who rules with undisputed sway in any company or relation; a despot.

Autocratic (a.) Alt. of Autocratical

Autocratical (a.) Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute; holding independent and arbitrary powers of government.

Autocrator (n.) An autocrat.

Autocratorical (a.) Pertaining to an autocrator; absolute.

Autocratrix (n.) A female sovereign who is independent and absolute; -- a title given to the empresses of Russia.

Autocratship (n.) The office or dignity of an autocrat.

Autos-da-fe (pl. ) of Auto-da-fe

Auto-da-fe (n.) A judgment of the Inquisition in Spain and Portugal condemning or acquitting persons accused of religious offenses.

Auto-da-fe (n.) An execution of such sentence, by the civil power, esp. the burning of a heretic. It was usually held on Sunday, and was made a great public solemnity by impressive forms and ceremonies.

Auto-da-fe (n.) A session of the court of Inquisition.

Autos-de-fe (pl. ) of Auto-de-fe

Auto-de-fe (n.) Same as Auto-da-fe.

Autodidact (n.) One who is self-taught; an automath.

Autodynamic (a.) Supplying its own power; -- applied to an instrument of the nature of a water-ram.

Autofecundation (n.) Self-impregnation.

Autogamous (a.) Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized.

Autogamy (n.) Self-fertilization, the fertilizing pollen being derived from the same blossom as the pistil acted upon.

Autogeneal (a.) Self-produced; autogenous.

Autogenesis (n.) Spontaneous generation.

Autogenetic (a.) Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.

Autogenous (a.) Self-generated; produced independently.

Autogenous (a.) Developed from an independent center of ossification.

Autogenously (adv.) In an autogenous manner; spontaneously.

Autograph (n.) That which is written with one's own hand; an original manuscript; a person's own signature or handwriting.

Autograph (a.) In one's own handwriting; as, an autograph letter; an autograph will.

Autographal (a.) Autographic.

Autographic (a.) Alt. of Autographical

Autographical (a.) Pertaining to an autograph, or one's own handwriting; of the nature of an autograph.

Autographical (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, the process of autography; as, autographic ink, paper, or press.

Autography (n.) The science of autographs; a person's own handwriting; an autograph.

Autography (n.) A process in lithography by which a writing or drawing is transferred from paper to stone.

Autolatry (n.) Self-worship.

Automath (n.) One who is self-taught.

Automatic (a.) Alt. of Automatical

Automatical (a.) Having an inherent power of action or motion.

Automatical (a.) Pertaining to, or produced by, an automaton; of the nature of an automaton; self-acting or self-regulating under fixed conditions; -- esp. applied to machinery or devices in which certain things formerly or usually done by hand are done by the machine or device itself; as, the automatic feed of a lathe; automatic gas lighting; an automatic engine or switch; an automatic mouse.

Automatical (a.) Not voluntary; not depending on the will; mechanical; as, automatic movements or functions.

Automatically (adv.) In an automatic manner.

Automatism (n.) The state or quality of being automatic; the power of self-moving; automatic, mechanical, or involuntary action. (Metaph.) A theory as to the activity of matter.

Automata (pl. ) of Automaton

Automatons (pl. ) of Automaton

Automaton (v. i.) Any thing or being regarded as having the power of spontaneous motion or action.

Automaton (v. i.) A self-moving machine, or one which has its motive power within itself; -- applied chiefly to machines which appear to imitate spontaneously the motions of living beings, such as men, birds, etc.

Automatous (a.) Automatic.

Automorphic (a.) Patterned after one's self.

Automorphism (n.) Automorphic characterization.

Autonomasy (n.) The use of a word of common or general signification for the name of a particular thing; as, He has gone to town, for, He has gone to London.

Autonomic (a.) Having the power of self-government; autonomous.

Autoomist (n.) One who advocates autonomy.

Autonomous (a.) Independent in government; having the right or power of self-government.

Autonomous (a.) Having independent existence or laws.

Autonomy (n.) The power or right of self-government; self-government, or political independence, of a city or a state.

Autonomy (n.) The sovereignty of reason in the sphere of morals; or man's power, as possessed of reason, to give law to himself. In this, according to Kant, consist the true nature and only possible proof of liberty.

Autophagi (n. pl.) Birds which are able to run about and obtain their own food as soon as hatched.

Autophoby (n.) Fear of one's self; fear of being egotistical.

Autophony (n.) An auscultatory process, which consists in noting the tone of the observer's own voice, while he speaks, holding his head close to the patient's chest.

Autoplastic (a.) Of or pertaining to autoplasty.

Autoplasty (n.) The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a piece of healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply the deficiency caused by disease or wounds.

Autopsic (a.) Alt. of Autopsical

Autopsical (a.) Pertaining to autopsy; autoptical.

Autopsorin (n.) That which is given under the doctrine of administering a patient's own virus.

Autopsy (a.) Personal observation or examination; seeing with one's own eyes; ocular view.

Autopsy (a.) Dissection of a dead body, for the purpose of ascertaining the cause, seat, or nature of a disease; a post-mortem examination.

Autoptic (a.) Alt. of Autoptical

Autoptical (a.) Seen with one's own eyes; belonging to, or connected with, personal observation; as, autoptic testimony or experience.

Autoptically (adv.) By means of ocular view, or one's own observation.

Autoschediastic (a.) Alt. of Autoschediastical

Autoschediastical (a.) Extemporary; offhand.

Autostylic (a.) Having the mandibular arch articulated directly to the cranium, as in the skulls of the Amphibia.

Autotheism (n.) The doctrine of God's self-existence.

Autotheism (n.) Deification of one's self; self-worship.

Autotheist (n.) One given to self-worship.

Autotype (n.) A facsimile.

Autotype (n.) A photographic picture produced in sensitized pigmented gelatin by exposure to light under a negative; and subsequent washing out of the soluble parts; a kind of picture in ink from a gelatin plate.

Autotypography (n.) A process resembling nature printing, by which drawings executed on gelatin are impressed into a soft metal plate, from which the printing is done as from copperplate.

Autotypy (n.) The art or process of making autotypes.

Autumn (n.) The third season of the year, or the season between summer and winter, often called the fall. Astronomically, it begins in the northern temperate zone at the autumnal equinox, about September 23, and ends at the winter solstice, about December 23; but in popular language, autumn, in America, comprises September, October, and November.

Autumn (n.) The harvest or fruits of autumn.

Autumn (n.) The time of maturity or decline; latter portion; third stage.

Autumnal (a.) Of, belonging to, or peculiar to, autumn; as, an autumnal tint; produced or gathered in autumn; as, autumnal fruits; flowering in autumn; as, an autumnal plant.

Autumnal (a.) Past the middle of life; in the third stage.

Auxanometer (n.) An instrument to measure the growth of plants.

Auxesis (n.) A figure by which a grave and magnificent word is put for the proper word; amplification; hyperbole.

Auxetic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, auxesis; amplifying.

Auxiliar (a.) Auxiliary.

Auxiliar (n.) An auxiliary.

Auxiliarly (adv.) By way of help.

Auxiliary (a.) Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary; as auxiliary troops.

Auxiliaries (pl. ) of Auxiliary

Auxiliary (n.) A helper; an assistant; a confederate in some action or enterprise.

Auxiliary (n.) Foreign troops in the service of a nation at war; (rarely in sing.), a member of the allied or subsidiary force.

Auxiliary (sing.) A verb which helps to form the voices, modes, and tenses of other verbs; -- called, also, an auxiliary verb; as, have, be, may, can, do, must, shall, and will, in English; etre and avoir, in French; avere and essere, in Italian; estar and haber, in Spanish.

Auxiliary (sing.) A quantity introduced for the purpose of simplifying or facilitating some operation, as in equations or trigonometrical formulae.

Auxiliatory (a.) Auxiliary; helping.

Ava (n.) Same as Kava.

Avadavat (n.) Same as Amadavat.

Availed (imp. & p. p.) of Avail

Availing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avail

Avail (v. t.) To turn to the advantage of; to be of service to; to profit; to benefit; to help; as, artifices will not avail the sinner in the day of judgment.

Avail (v. t.) To promote; to assist.

Avail (v. i.) To be of use or advantage; to answer the purpose; to have strength, force, or efficacy sufficient to accomplish the object; as, the plea in bar must avail, that is, be sufficient to defeat the suit; this scheme will not avail; medicines will not avail to check the disease.

Avail (n.) Profit; advantage toward success; benefit; value; as, labor, without economy, is of little avail.

Avail (n.) Proceeds; as, the avails of a sale by auction.

Avail (v. t. & i.) See Avale, v.

Availabilities (pl. ) of Availability

Availability (n.) The quality of being available; availableness.

Availability (n.) That which is available.

Available (a.) Having sufficient power, force, or efficacy, for the object; effectual; valid; as, an available plea.

Available (a.) Such as one may avail one's self of; capable of being used for the accomplishment of a purpose; usable; profitable; advantageous; convertible into a resource; as, an available measure; an available candidate.

Availableness (n.) Competent power; validity; efficacy; as, the availableness of a title.

Availableness (n.) Quality of being available; capability of being used for the purpose intended.

Avaiably (adv.) In an available manner; profitably; advantageously; efficaciously.

Availment (n.) Profit; advantage.

Avalanche (n.) A large mass or body of snow and ice sliding swiftly down a mountain side, or falling down a precipice.

Avalanche (n.) A fall of earth, rocks, etc., similar to that of an avalanche of snow or ice.

Avalanche (n.) A sudden, great, or irresistible descent or influx of anything.

Avale (v. t. & i.) To cause to descend; to lower; to let fall; to doff.

Avale (v. t. & i.) To bring low; to abase.

Avale (v. t. & i.) To descend; to fall; to dismount.

Avant (n.) The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van.

Avant-courier (n.) A person dispatched before another person or company, to give notice of his or their approach.

Avant-guard (n.) The van or advanced body of an army. See Vanguard.

Avarice (n.) An excessive or inordinate desire of gain; greediness after wealth; covetousness; cupidity.

Avarice (n.) An inordinate desire for some supposed good.

Avaricious (a.) Actuated by avarice; greedy of gain; immoderately desirous of accumulating property.

Avarous (a.) Avaricious.

Avast (a.) Cease; stop; stay.

Avatar (n.) The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a man or an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu.

Avatar (n.) Incarnation; manifestation as an object of worship or admiration.

Avaunce (v. t. & i.) To advance; to profit.

Avaunt (interj.) Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalent to the phrase Get thee gone.

Avaunt (v. t. & i.) To advance; to move forward; to elevate.

Avaunt (v. t. & i.) To depart; to move away.

Avaunt (v. t. & i.) To vaunt; to boast.

Avaunt (n.) A vaunt; to boast.

Avauntour (n.) A boaster.

Ave (n.) An ave Maria.

Ave (n.) A reverential salutation.

Avel (v. t.) To pull away.

Avellane (a.) In the form of four unhusked filberts; as, an avellane cross.

Ave Maria () Alt. of Ave Mary

Ave Mary () A salutation and prayer to the Virgin Mary, as mother of God; -- used in the Roman Catholic church.

Ave Mary () A particular time (as in Italy, at the ringing of the bells about half an hour after sunset, and also at early dawn), when the people repeat the Ave Maria.

Avena (n.) A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa); the oat grasses.

Avenaceous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, oats or the oat grasses.

Avenage (n.) A quantity of oats paid by a tenant to a landlord in lieu of rent.

Avener (n.) An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide oats for the horses.

Avenged (imp. & p. p.) of Avenge

Avenging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avenge

Avenge (v. t.) To take vengeance for; to exact satisfaction for by punishing the injuring party; to vindicate by inflicting pain or evil on a wrongdoer.

Avenge (v. t.) To treat revengefully; to wreak vengeance on.

Avenge (v. i.) To take vengeance.

Avenge (n.) Vengeance; revenge.

Avengeance (n.) Vengeance.

Avengeful (a.) Vengeful.

Avengement (n.) The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken.

Avenger (n.) One who avenges or vindicates; as, an avenger of blood.

Avenger (n.) One who takes vengeance.

Avengeress (n.) A female avenger.

Avenious (a.) Being without veins or nerves, as the leaves of certain plants.

Avenor (n.) See Avener.

Avens (n.) A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet.

Aventail (n.) The movable front to a helmet; the ventail.

Aventine (a.) Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on which Rome stood.

Aventine (n.) A post of security or defense.

Aventre (v. t.) To thrust forward (at a venture), as a spear.

Aventure (n.) Accident; chance; adventure.

Aventure (n.) A mischance causing a person's death without felony, as by drowning, or falling into the fire.

Aventurine (n.) A kind of glass, containing gold-colored spangles. It was produced in the first place by the accidental (par aventure) dropping of some brass filings into a pot of melted glass.

Aventurine (n.) A variety of translucent quartz, spangled throughout with scales of yellow mica.

Avenue (n.) A way or opening for entrance into a place; a passage by which a place may by reached; a way of approach or of exit.

Avenue (n.) The principal walk or approach to a house which is withdrawn from the road, especially, such approach bordered on each side by trees; any broad passageway thus bordered.

Avenue (n.) A broad street; as, the Fifth Avenue in New York.

Aver (n.) A work horse, or working ox.

Averred (imp. & p. p.) of Aver

Averring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aver

Aver (v. t.) To assert, or prove, the truth of.

Aver (v. t.) To avouch or verify; to offer to verify; to prove or justify. See Averment.

Aver (v. t.) To affirm with confidence; to declare in a positive manner, as in confidence of asserting the truth.

Average (n.) That service which a tenant owed his lord, to be done by the work beasts of the tenant, as the carriage of wheat, turf, etc.

Average (n.) A tariff or duty on goods, etc.

Average (n.) Any charge in addition to the regular charge for freight of goods shipped.

Average (n.) A contribution to a loss or charge which has been imposed upon one of several for the general benefit; damage done by sea perils.

Average (n.) The equitable and proportionate distribution of loss or expense among all interested.

Average (n.) A mean proportion, medial sum or quantity, made out of unequal sums or quantities; an arithmetical mean. Thus, if A loses 5 dollars, B 9, and C 16, the sum is 30, and the average 10.

Average (n.) Any medial estimate or general statement derived from a comparison of diverse specific cases; a medium or usual size, quantity, quality, rate, etc.

Average (n.) In the English corn trade, the medial price of the several kinds of grain in the principal corn markets.

Average (a.) Pertaining to an average or mean; medial; containing a mean proportion; of a mean size, quality, ability, etc.; ordinary; usual; as, an average rate of profit; an average amount of rain; the average Englishman; beings of the average stamp.

Average (a.) According to the laws of averages; as, the loss must be made good by average contribution.

Averaged (imp. & p. p.) of Average

Averaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Average

Average (v. t.) To find the mean of, when sums or quantities are unequal; to reduce to a mean.

Average (v. t.) To divide among a number, according to a given proportion; as, to average a loss.

Average (v. t.) To do, accomplish, get, etc., on an average.

Average (v. i.) To form, or exist in, a mean or medial sum or quantity; to amount to, or to be, on an average; as, the losses of the owners will average twenty five dollars each; these spars average ten feet in length.

Avercorn (n.) A reserved rent in corn, formerly paid to religious houses by their tenants or farmers.

Averment (v. t.) The act of averring, or that which is averred; affirmation; positive assertion.

Averment (v. t.) Verification; establishment by evidence.

Averment (v. t.) A positive statement of facts; an allegation; an offer to justify or prove what is alleged.

Avernal (a.) Alt. of Avernian

Avernian (a.) Of or pertaining to Avernus, a lake of Campania, in Italy, famous for its poisonous vapors, which ancient writers fancied were so malignant as to kill birds flying over it. It was represented by the poets to be connected with the infernal regions.

Averpenny (n.) Money paid by a tenant in lieu of the service of average.

Averroism (n.) The tenets of the Averroists.

Averroist (n.) One of a sect of peripatetic philosophers, who appeared in Italy before the restoration of learning; so denominated from Averroes, or Averrhoes, a celebrated Arabian philosopher. He held the doctrine of monopsychism.

Averruncate (v. t.) To avert; to ward off.

Averruncate (v. t.) To root up.

Averruncation (n.) The act of averting.

Averruncation (n.) Eradication.

Averruncator (n.) An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or a blade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod.

Aversation (n.) A turning from with dislike; aversion.

Averse (a.) Turned away or backward.

Averse (a.) Having a repugnance or opposition of mind; disliking; disinclined; unwilling; reluctant.

Averse (v. t. & i.) To turn away.

Aversely (adv.) Backward; in a backward direction; as, emitted aversely.

Aversely (adv.) With repugnance or aversion; unwillingly.

Averseness (n.) The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness.

Aversion (n.) A turning away.

Aversion (n.) Opposition or repugnance of mind; fixed dislike; antipathy; disinclination; reluctance.

Aversion (n.) The object of dislike or repugnance.

Averted (imp. & p. p.) of Avert

Averting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avert

Avert (n.) To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object; to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how can the danger be averted? To avert his ire.

Avert (v. i.) To turn away.

Averted (a.) Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended; unpropitious.

Averter (n.) One who, or that which, averts.

Avertible (a.) Capable of being averted; preventable.

Avertiment (n.) Advertisement.

Aves (n. pl.) The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.

Avesta (n.) The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.

Avian (a.) Of or instrument to birds.

Aviaries (pl. ) of Aviary

Aviary (n.) A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping birds confined; a bird house.

Aviation (n.) The art or science of flying.

Aviator (n.) An experimenter in aviation.

Aviator (n.) A flying machine.

Avicula (n.) A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied to the pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of the typical species to a bird.

Avicular (a.) Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds.

Avicularia (n. pl.) See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, often having the shape of a bird's bill.

Aviculture (n.) Rearing and care of birds.

Avid (a.) Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy.

Avidious (a.) Avid.

Avidiously (adv.) Eagerly; greedily.

Avidity (n.) Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire; as, to eat with avidity.

Avie (adv.) Emulously.

Avifauna (n.) The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region.

Avigato (n.) See Avocado.

Avignon berry () The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species of the same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. It is used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also French berry.

Avile (v. t.) To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate.

Avis (n.) Advice; opinion; deliberation.

Avise (v. t.) To look at; to view; to think of.

Avise (v. t.) To advise; to counsel.

Avise (v. i.) To consider; to reflect.

Aviseful (a.) Watchful; circumspect.

Avisely (adv.) Advisedly.

Avisement (n.) Advisement; observation; deliberation.

Avision (n.) Vision.

Aviso (n.) Information; advice.

Aviso (n.) An advice boat, or dispatch boat.

Avocado (n.) The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical America. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- called also avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter.

Avocat (n.) An advocate.

Avocate (a.) To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to another tribunal.

Avocation (n.) A calling away; a diversion.

Avocation (n.) That which calls one away from one's regular employment or vocation.

Avocation (n.) Pursuits; duties; affairs which occupy one's time; usual employment; vocation.

Avocative (a.) Calling off.

Avocative (n.) That which calls aside; a dissuasive.

Avocet (n.) Alt. of Avoset

Avoset (n.) A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper. The bill is long and bend upward toward the tip. The American species is R. Americana.

Avoided (imp. & p. p.) of Avoid

Avoiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avoid

Avoid (a.) To empty.

Avoid (a.) To emit or throw out; to void; as, to avoid excretions.

Avoid (a.) To quit or evacuate; to withdraw from.

Avoid (a.) To make void; to annul or vacate; to refute.

Avoid (a.) To keep away from; to keep clear of; to endeavor no to meet; to shun; to abstain from; as, to avoid the company of gamesters.

Avoid (a.) To get rid of.

Avoid (a.) To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, the plaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid it by stating new matter.

Avoid (v. i.) To retire; to withdraw.

Avoid (v. i.) To become void or vacant.

Avoidable (a.) Capable of being vacated; liable to be annulled or made invalid; voidable.

Avoidable (a.) Capable of being avoided, shunned, or escaped.

Avoidance (n.) The act of annulling; annulment.

Avoidance (n.) The act of becoming vacant, or the state of being vacant; -- specifically used for the state of a benefice becoming void by the death, deprivation, or resignation of the incumbent.

Avoidance (n.) A dismissing or a quitting; removal; withdrawal.

Avoidance (n.) The act of avoiding or shunning; keeping clear of.

Avoidance (n.) The courts by which anything is carried off.

Avoider (n.) The person who carries anything away, or the vessel in which things are carried away.

Avoider (n.) One who avoids, shuns, or escapes.

Avoidless (a.) Unavoidable; inevitable.

Avoirdupois (n.) Goods sold by weight.

Avoirdupois (n.) Avoirdupois weight.

Avoirdupois (n.) Weight; heaviness; as, a woman of much avoirdupois.

Avoke (v. t.) To call from or back again.

Avolate (v. i.) To fly away; to escape; to exhale.

Avolation (n.) The act of flying; flight; evaporation.

Avoset (n.) Same as Avocet.

Avouched (imp. & p. p.) of Avouch

Avouching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avouch

Avouch (v. t.) To appeal to; to cite or claim as authority.

Avouch (v. t.) To maintain a just or true; to vouch for.

Avouch (v. t.) To declare or assert positively and as matter of fact; to affirm openly.

Avouch (v. t.) To acknowledge deliberately; to admit; to confess; to sanction.

Avouch (n.) Evidence; declaration.

Avouchable (a.) Capable of being avouched.

Avoucher (n.) One who avouches.

Avouchment (n.) The act of avouching; positive declaration.

Avoutrer (n.) See Advoutrer.

Avoutrie (n.) Adultery.

Avowed (imp. & p. p.) of Avow

Avowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avow

Avow (v. t.) To declare openly, as something believed to be right; to own or acknowledge frankly; as, a man avows his principles or his crimes.

Avow (v. t.) To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry.

Avow (n.) Avowal.

Avow (n.) To bind, or to devote, by a vow.

Avow (n.) A vow or determination.

Avowable (a.) Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, with confidence.

Avowal (n.) An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of such principles.

Avowance (n.) Act of avowing; avowal.

Avowance (n.) Upholding; defense; vindication.

Avowant (n.) The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods, and justifies the taking.

Avowed (a.) Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.

Avowee (n.) The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the patron; an advowee. See Advowson.

Avower (n.) One who avows or asserts.

Avowry (n.) An advocate; a patron; a patron saint.

Avowry (n.) The act of the distrainer of goods, who, in an action of replevin, avows and justifies the taking in his own right.

Avowtry (v. t.) Adultery. See Advoutry.

Avoyer (n.) A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland.

Avulse (v. t.) To pluck or pull off.

Avulsion (n.) A tearing asunder; a forcible separation.

Avulsion (n.) A fragment torn off.

Avulsion (n.) The sudden removal of lands or soil from the estate of one man to that of another by an inundation or a current, or by a sudden change in the course of a river by which a part of the estate of one man is cut off and joined to the estate of another. The property in the part thus separated, or cut off, continues in the original owner.

Avuncular (a.) Of or pertaining to an uncle.

Awaited (imp. & p. p.) of Await

Awaiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Await

Await (v. t.) To watch for; to look out for.

Await (v. t.) To wait on, serve, or attend.

Await (v. t.) To wait for; to stay for; to expect. See Expect.

Await (v. t.) To be in store for; to be ready or in waiting for; as, a glorious reward awaits the good.

Await (v. i.) To watch.

Await (v. i.) To wait (on or upon).

Await (v. i.) To wait; to stay in waiting.

Await (n.) A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed.

Awoke (imp.) of Awake

Awaked () of Awake

Awaked (p. p.) of Awake

Awaken () of Awake

Awoken () of Awake

Awaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awake

Awoke () of Awake

Awake (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to wake; to awaken.

Awake (v. t.) To rouse from a state resembling sleep, as from death, stupidity., or inaction; to put into action; to give new life to; to stir up; as, to awake the dead; to awake the dormant faculties.

Awake (v. i.) To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep; and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction or death.

Awake (a.) Not sleeping or lethargic; roused from sleep; in a state of vigilance or action.

Awakened (imp. & p. p.) of Awaken

Awakening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awaken

Awaken (v. t.) To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake.

Awakener (n.) One who, or that which, awakens.

Awakening (a.) Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousing into activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakening discourse; the awakening dawn.

Awakening (n.) The act of awaking, or ceasing to sleep. Specifically: A revival of religion, or more general attention to religious matters than usual.

Awakenment (n.) An awakening.

Awanting (a.) Missing; wanting.

Awarded (imp. & p. p.) of Award

Awarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Award

Award (v. t.) To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant.

Award (v. i.) To determine; to make an award.

Award (v. t.) A judgment, sentence, or final decision. Specifically: The decision of arbitrators in a case submitted.

Award (v. t.) The paper containing the decision of arbitrators; that which is warded.

Awarder (n.) One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicial determination; a judge.

Aware (a.) Watchful; vigilant or on one's guard against danger or difficulty.

Aware (a.) Apprised; informed; cognizant; conscious; as, he was aware of the enemy's designs.

Awarn (v. t.) To warn.

Awash (a.) Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of shore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface of the water, so that the waves break over it.

Away (adv.) From a place; hence.

Away (adv.) Absent; gone; at a distance; as, the master is away from home.

Away (adv.) Aside; off; in another direction.

Away (adv.) From a state or condition of being; out of existence.

Away (adv.) By ellipsis of the verb, equivalent to an imperative: Go or come away; begone; take away.

Away (adv.) On; in continuance; without intermission or delay; as, sing away.

Away-going (a.) Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe until after its expiration; -- said of crops.

Awayward (adv.) Turned away; away.

Awe (n.) Dread; great fear mingled with respect.

Awe (n.) The emotion inspired by something dreadful and sublime; an undefined sense of the dreadful and the sublime; reverential fear, or solemn wonder; profound reverence.

Awed (imp. & p. p.) of Awe

Awing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awe

Awe (v. t.) To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; to control by inspiring dread.

Awearied (p. p.) Wearied.

Aweary (a.) Weary.

Aweather (adv.) On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather!

Aweigh (adv.) Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly; atrip; -- said of the anchor.

Aweless (a.) See Awless.

Awesome (a.) Causing awe; appalling; awful; as, an awesome sight.

Awesome (a.) Expressive of awe or terror.

Awesomeness (n.) The quality of being awesome.

Awe-stricken (a.) Awe-struck.

Awe-struck (a.) Struck with awe.

Awful (a.) Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible; as, an awful scene.

Awful (a.) Inspiring awe; filling with profound reverence, or with fear and admiration; fitted to inspire reverential fear; profoundly impressive.

Awful (a.) Struck or filled with awe; terror-stricken.

Awful (a.) Worshipful; reverential; law-abiding.

Awful (a.) Frightful; exceedingly bad; great; -- applied intensively; as, an awful bonnet; an awful boaster.

Awfully (adv.) In an awful manner; in a manner to fill with terror or awe; fearfully; reverently.

Awfully (adv.) Very; excessively.

Awfulness (n.) The quality of striking with awe, or with reverence; dreadfulness; solemnity; as, the awfulness of this sacred place.

Awfulness (n.) The state of being struck with awe; a spirit of solemnity; profound reverence.

Awhape (v. t.) To confound; to terrify; to amaze.

Awhile (adv.) For a while; for some time; for a short time.

Awing (adv.) On the wing; flying; fluttering.

Awk (a.) Odd; out of order; perverse.

Awk (a.) Wrong, or not commonly used; clumsy; sinister; as, the awk end of a rod (the but end).

Awk (a.) Clumsy in performance or manners; unhandy; not dexterous; awkward.

Awk (adv.) Perversely; in the wrong way.

Awkly (adv.) In an unlucky (left-handed) or perverse manner.

Awkly (adv.) Awkwardly.

Awkward (a.) Wanting dexterity in the use of the hands, or of instruments; not dexterous; without skill; clumsy; wanting ease, grace, or effectiveness in movement; ungraceful; as, he was awkward at a trick; an awkward boy.

Awkward (a.) Not easily managed or effected; embarrassing.

Awkward (a.) Perverse; adverse; untoward.

Awl (n.) A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad awl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc.

Awless (a.) Wanting reverence; void of respectful fear.

Awless (a.) Inspiring no awe.

Awlessness (n.) The quality of being awless.

Awl-shaped (a.) Shaped like an awl.

Awl-shaped (a.) Subulate. See Subulate.

Awlwort (n.) A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves.

Awm (n.) See Aam.

Awn (n.) The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or any similar bristlelike appendage; arista.

Awned (a.) Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded.

Awning (n.) A rooflike cover, usually of canvas, extended over or before any place as a shelter from the sun, rain, or wind.

Awning (n.) That part of the poop deck which is continued forward beyond the bulkhead of the cabin.

Awninged (a.) Furnished with an awning.

Awnless (a.) Without awns or beard.

Awny (a.) Having awns; bearded.

Awork (adv.) At work; in action.

Aworking (adv.) At work; in action.

Awreak (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Awreke

Awreke (v. t. & i.) To avenge. [Obs.] See Wreak.

Awrong (adv.) Wrongly.

Awry (adv. & a.) Turned or twisted toward one side; not in a straight or true direction, or position; out of the right course; distorted; obliquely; asquint; with oblique vision; as, to glance awry.

Awry (adv. & a.) Aside from the line of truth, or right reason; unreasonable or unreasonably; perverse or perversely.

Awsome (a.) Same as Awesome.

Ax (n.) Alt. of Axe

Axe (n.) A tool or instrument of steel, or of iron with a steel edge or blade, for felling trees, chopping and splitting wood, hewing timber, etc. It is wielded by a wooden helve or handle, so fixed in a socket or eye as to be in the same plane with the blade. The broadax, or carpenter's ax, is an ax for hewing timber, made heavier than the chopping ax, and with a broader and thinner blade and a shorter handle.

Ax (v. t. & i.) To ask; to inquire or inquire of.

Axal (a.) [See Axial.]

Axe () Alt. of Axeman

Axeman () See Ax, Axman.

Axial (a.) Of or pertaining to an axis; of the nature of, or resembling, an axis; around an axis.

Axial (a.) Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; or to the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones.

Axially (adv.) In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial (magnetic) line.

Axil (n.) The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it springs.

Axile (a.) Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in the axis of a seed.

Axillae (pl. ) of Axilla

Axilla (n.) The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder.

Axilla (n.) An axil.

Axillar (a.) Axillary.

Axillaries (n. pl.) Alt. of Axillars

Axillars (n. pl.) Feathers connecting the under surface of the wing and the body, and concealed by the closed wing.

Axillary (a.) Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland, artery, nerve.

Axillary (a.) Situated in, or rising from, an axil; of or pertaining to an axil.

Axinite (n.) A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found in glassy, brown crystals with acute edges.

Axinomancy (n.) A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet.

Axiom (a.) A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for granted; as, The whole is greater than a part; A thing can not, at the same time, be and not be.

Axiom (a.) An established principle in some art or science, which, though not a necessary truth, is universally received; as, the axioms of political economy.

Axiomatic (a.) Alt. of Axiomatical

Axiomatical (a.) Of or pertaining to an axiom; having the nature of an axiom; self-evident; characterized by axioms.

Axiomatically (adv.) By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom.

Axis (n.) The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, where it is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name).

Axes (pl. ) of Axis

Axis (n.) A straight line, real or imaginary, passing through a body, on which it revolves, or may be supposed to revolve; a line passing through a body or system around which the parts are symmetrically arranged.

Axis (n.) A straight line with respect to which the different parts of a magnitude are symmetrically arranged; as, the axis of a cylinder, i. e., the axis of a cone, that is, the straight line joining the vertex and the center of the base; the axis of a circle, any straight line passing through the center.

Axis (n.) The stem; the central part, or longitudinal support, on which organs or parts are arranged; the central line of any body.

Axis (n.) The second vertebra of the neck, or vertebra dentata.

Axis (n.) Also used of the body only of the vertebra, which is prolonged anteriorly within the foramen of the first vertebra or atlas, so as to form the odontoid process or peg which serves as a pivot for the atlas and head to turn upon.

Axis (n.) One of several imaginary lines, assumed in describing the position of the planes by which a crystal is bounded.

Axis (n.) The primary or secondary central line of any design.

Axle (n.) The pin or spindle on which a wheel revolves, or which revolves with a wheel.

Axle (n.) A transverse bar or shaft connecting the opposite wheels of a car or carriage; an axletree.

Axle (n.) An axis; as, the sun's axle.

Axle box () A bushing in the hub of a wheel, through which the axle passes.

Axle box () The journal box of a rotating axle, especially a railway axle.

Axled (a.) Having an axle; -- used in composition.

Axle guard () The part of the framing of a railway car or truck, by which an axle box is held laterally, and in which it may move vertically; -- also called a jaw in the United States, and a housing in England.

Axletree (n.) A bar or beam of wood or iron, connecting the opposite wheels of a carriage, on the ends of which the wheels revolve.

Axletree (n.) A spindle or axle of a wheel.

Axmen (pl. ) of Axman

Axman (n.) One who wields an ax.

Axminster (n.) An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for its thick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng.

Axolotl (n.) An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevated lakes of Mexico; the siredon.

Axstone (n.) A variety of jade. It is used by some savages, particularly the natives of the South Sea Islands, for making axes or hatchets.

Axtree (n.) Axle or axletree.

Axunge (n.) Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.), lard prepared for medical use.

Ay (interj.) Ah! alas!

Ay (adv.) Same as Aye.

Ayah (n.) A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid.

Aye (adv.) Alt. of Ay

Ay (adv.) Yes; yea; -- a word expressing assent, or an affirmative answer to a question. It is much used in viva voce voting in legislative bodies, etc.

Aye (n.) An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, To call for the ayes and noes; The ayes have it.

Aye (a.) Alt. of Ay

Ay (a.) Always; ever; continually; for an indefinite time.

Aye-aye (n.) A singular nocturnal quadruped, allied to the lemurs, found in Madagascar (Cheiromys Madagascariensis), remarkable for its long fingers, sharp nails, and rodent-like incisor teeth.

Ayegreen (n.) The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum).

Ayen (adv. & prep.) Alt. of Ayeins

Ayein (adv. & prep.) Alt. of Ayeins

Ayeins (adv. & prep.) Again; back against.

Ayenward (adv.) Backward.

Ayle (n.) A grandfather.

Ayme (n.) The utterance of the ejaculation Ay me ! [Obs.] See Ay, interj.

Ayond (prep. & adv.) Beyond.

Ayont (prep. & adv.) Beyond.

Ayrie (n.) Alt. of Ayry

Ayry (n.) See Aerie.

Ayrshire (n.) One of a superior breed of cattle from Ayrshire, Scotland. Ayrshires are notable for the quantity and quality of their milk.

Ayuntamiento (n.) In Spain and Spanish America, a corporation or body of magistrates in cities and towns, corresponding to mayor and aldermen.

Azaleas (pl. ) of Azalea

Azalea (n.) A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or of North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinct from Rhododendron.

Azarole (n.) The Neapolitan medlar (Crataegus azarolus), a shrub of southern Europe; also, its fruit.

Azedarach (n.) A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in the southern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride of China, and Bead tree.

Azedarach (n.) The bark of the roots of the azedarach, used as a cathartic and emetic.

Azimuth (n.) The quadrant of an azimuth circle.

Azimuth (n.) An arc of the horizon intercepted between the meridian of the place and a vertical circle passing through the center of any object; as, the azimuth of a star; the azimuth or bearing of a line surveying.

Azimuthal (a.) Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle.

Azo- () A combining form of azote

Azo- () Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined, as in cyanides, nitrates, etc.

Azo- () Now especially applied to compounds containing a two atom nitrogen group uniting two hydrocarbon radicals, as in azobenzene, azobenzoic, etc. These compounds furnish many artificial dyes. See Diazo-.

Azobenzene (n.) A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, forming orange red crystals which are easily fusible.

Azoic (a.) Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks.

Azoleic (a.) Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitric acid.

Azonic (a.) Confined to no zone or region; not local.

Azorian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Azores.

Azorian (n.) A native of the Azores.

Azote (n.) Same as Nitrogen.

Azoth (n.) The first principle of metals, i. e., mercury, which was formerly supposed to exist in all metals, and to be extractable from them.

Azoth (n.) The universal remedy of Paracelsus.

Azotic (a.) Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid.

Azotite (n.) A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acid with a base; a nitrite.

Azotized (imp. & p. p.) of Azotize

Azotizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Azotize

Azotize (v. t.) To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize.

Azotometer (n.) An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion of nitrogen; a nitrometer.

Azotous (a.) Nitrous; as, azotous acid.

Aztec (a.) Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the Spanish conquest in 1519.

Aztec (n.) One of the Aztec race or people.

Azure (a.) Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky; cerulean; also, cloudless.

Azure (n.) The lapis lazuli.

Azure (n.) The clear blue color of the sky; also, a pigment or dye of this color.

Azure (n.) The blue vault above; the unclouded sky.

Azure (n.) A blue color, represented in engraving by horizontal parallel lines.

Azure (v. t.) To color blue.

Azured (a.) Of an azure color; sky-blue.

Azureous (a.) Of a fine blue color; azure.

Azurine (a.) Azure.

Azurine (n.) The blue roach of Europe (Leuciscus caeruleus); -- so called from its color.

Azurite (n.) Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite.

Azurn (a.) Azure.

Azygous (a.) Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, the azygous muscle of the uvula.

Azym (n.) Alt. of Azyme

Azyme (n.) Unleavened bread.

Azymic (a.) Azymous.

Azymite (n.) One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- a name of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins.

Azymous (a.) Unleavened; unfermented.
B () is the second letter of the English alphabet. (See Guide to Pronunciation, // 196, 220.) It is etymologically related to p, v, f, w and m , letters representing sounds having a close organic affinity to its own sound; as in Eng. bursar and purser; Eng. bear and Lat. ferre; Eng. silver and Ger. silber; Lat. cubitum and It. gomito; Eng. seven, Anglo-Saxon seofon, Ger. sieben, Lat. septem, Gr.epta`, Sanskrit saptan. The form of letter B is Roman, from Greek B (Beta), of Semitic origin. The small b was formed by gradual change from the capital B.

Ba (v. i.) To kiss.

Baa (v. i.) To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep.

Baas (pl. ) of Baa

Baa (n.) The cry or bleating of a sheep; a bleat.

Baaing (n.) The bleating of a sheep.

Baalim (pl. ) of Baal

Baal (n.) The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish nations.

Baal (n.) The whole class of divinities to whom the name Baal was applied.

Baalism (n.) Worship of Baal; idolatry.

Baalist (n.) Alt. of Baalite

Baalite (n.) A worshiper of Baal; a devotee of any false religion; an idolater.

Baba (n.) A kind of plum cake.

Babbitt (v. t.) To line with Babbitt metal.

Babbitt metal () A soft white alloy of variable composition (as a nine parts of tin to one of copper, or of fifty parts of tin to five of antimony and one of copper) used in bearings to diminish friction.

Babbled (imp. & p. p.) of Babble

Babbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Babble

Babble (v. i.) To utter words indistinctly or unintelligibly; to utter inarticulate sounds; as a child babbles.

Babble (v. i.) To talk incoherently; to utter unmeaning words.

Babble (v. i.) To talk much; to chatter; to prate.

Babble (v. i.) To make a continuous murmuring noise, as shallow water running over stones.

Babble (v. i.) To utter in an indistinct or incoherent way; to repeat, as words, in a childish way without understanding.

Babble (v. i.) To disclose by too free talk, as a secret.

Babble (n.) Idle talk; senseless prattle; gabble; twaddle.

Babble (n.) Inarticulate speech; constant or confused murmur.

Babblement (n.) Babble.

Babbler (n.) An idle talker; an irrational prater; a teller of secrets.

Babbler (n.) A hound too noisy on finding a good scent.

Babbler (n.) A name given to any one of family (Timalinae) of thrushlike birds, having a chattering note.

Babblery (n.) Babble.

Babe (n.) An infant; a young child of either sex; a baby.

Babe (n.) A doll for children.

Babehood (n.) Babyhood.

Babel (n.) The city and tower in the land of Shinar, where the confusion of languages took place.

Babel (n.) Hence: A place or scene of noise and confusion; a confused mixture of sounds, as of voices or languages.

Babery (n.) Finery of a kind to please a child.

Babian (n.) Alt. of Babion

Babion (n.) A baboon.

Babillard (n.) The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babbling warbler.

Babingtonite (n.) A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxene in angle, and of a greenish black color. It is a silicate of iron, manganese, and lime.

Babiroussa (n.) Alt. of Babirussa

Babirussa (n.) A large hoglike quadruped (Sus, / Porcus, babirussa) of the East Indies, sometimes domesticated; the Indian hog. Its upper canine teeth or tusks are large and recurved.

Babish (a.) Like a babe; a childish; babyish.

Babism (n.) The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and Parsee elements.

Babist (n.) A believer in Babism.

Bablah (n.) The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia; neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeing drab.

Baboo (n.) Alt. of Babu

Babu (n.) A Hindoo gentleman; a native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire.

Baboon (n.) One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and Papio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and large canine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities on the buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, and Drill an ape.

Baboonery (n.) Baboonish behavior.

Baboonish (a.) Like a baboon.

Babies (pl. ) of Baby

Baby (n.) An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.

Baby (n.) A small image of an infant; a doll.

Baby (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an infant; young or little; as, baby swans.

Babied (imp. & p. p.) of Baby

Babying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baby

Baby (v. i.) To treat like a young child; to keep dependent; to humor; to fondle.

Baby farm () A place where the nourishment and care of babies are offered for hire.

Baby farmer () One who keeps a baby farm.

Baby farming () The business of keeping a baby farm.

Babyhood (n.) The state or period of infancy.

Babyhouse (a.) A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture.

Babyish (a.) Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple.

Babyism (n.) The state of being a baby.

Babyism (n.) A babyish manner of acting or speaking.

Baby jumper () A hoop suspended by an elastic strap, in which a young child may be held secure while amusing itself by jumping on the floor.

Babylonian (a.) Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or to the ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.

Babylonian (n.) An inhabitant of Babylonia (which included Chaldea); a Chaldean.

Babylonian (n.) An astrologer; -- so called because the Chaldeans were remarkable for the study of astrology.

Babylonic (a.) Alt. of Babylonical

Babylonical (a.) Pertaining to Babylon, or made there; as, Babylonic garments, carpets, or hangings.

Babylonical (a.) Tumultuous; disorderly.

Babylonish (n.) Of or pertaining to, or made in, Babylon or Babylonia.

Babylonish (n.) Pertaining to the Babylon of Revelation xiv. 8.

Babylonish (n.) Pertaining to Rome and papal power.

Babylonish (n.) Confused; Babel-like.

Babyroussa (n.) Alt. of Babyrussa

Babyrussa (n.) See Babyroussa.

Babyship (n.) The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant.

Bac (n.) A broad, flatbottomed ferryboat, usually worked by a rope.

Bac (n.) A vat or cistern. See 1st Back.

Baccalaureate (n.) The degree of bachelor of arts. (B.A. or A.B.), the first or lowest academical degree conferred by universities and colleges.

Baccalaureate (n.) A baccalaureate sermon.

Baccalaureate (a.) Pertaining to a bachelor of arts.

Baccara (n.) Alt. of Baccarat

Baccarat (n.) A French game of cards, played by a banker and punters.

Baccare (interj.) Alt. of Backare

Backare (interj.) Stand back! give place! -- a cant word of the Elizabethan writers, probably in ridicule of some person who pretended to a knowledge of Latin which he did not possess.

Baccate (a.) Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits.

Baccated (a.) Having many berries.

Baccated (a.) Set or adorned with pearls.

Bacchanal (a.) Relating to Bacchus or his festival.

Bacchanal (a.) Engaged in drunken revels; drunken and riotous or noisy.

Bacchanal (n.) A devotee of Bacchus; one who indulges in drunken revels; one who is noisy and riotous when intoxicated; a carouser.

Bacchanal (n.) The festival of Bacchus; the bacchanalia.

Bacchanal (n.) Drunken revelry; an orgy.

Bacchanal (n.) A song or dance in honor of Bacchus.

Bacchanalia (n. pl.) A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.

Bacchanalia (n. pl.) Hence: A drunken feast; drunken reveler.

Bacchanalian (a.) Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to or given to reveling and drunkenness.

Bacchanalian (n.) A bacchanal; a drunken reveler.

Bacchanalianism (n.) The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry.

Bacchants (pl. ) of Bacchant

Bacchantes (pl. ) of Bacchant

Bacchant (n.) A priest of Bacchus.

Bacchant (n.) A bacchanal; a reveler.

Bacchant (a.) Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling; carousing.

Bacchantes (pl. ) of Bacchante

Bacchante (n.) A priestess of Bacchus.

Bacchante (n.) A female bacchanal.

Bacchantic (a.) Bacchanalian.

Bacchic (a.) Alt. of Bacchical

Bacchical (a.) Of or relating to Bacchus; hence, jovial, or riotous,with intoxication.

Bacchii (pl. ) of Bacchius

Bacchius (n.) A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones; according to some, two long and a short.

Bacchus (n.) The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele.

Bacciferous (a.) Producing berries.

Bacciform (a.) Having the form of a berry.

Baccivorous (a.) Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds.

Bace (n., a., & v.) See Base.

Bacharach (n.) Alt. of Backarack

Backarack (n.) A kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine.

Bachelor (n.) A man of any age who has not been married.

Bachelor (n.) An unmarried woman.

Bachelor (n.) A person who has taken the first or lowest degree in the liberal arts, or in some branch of science, at a college or university; as, a bachelor of arts.

Bachelor (n.) A knight who had no standard of his own, but fought under the standard of another in the field; often, a young knight.

Bachelor (n.) In the companies of London tradesmen, one not yet admitted to wear the livery; a junior member.

Bachelor (n.) A kind of bass, an edible fresh-water fish (Pomoxys annularis) of the southern United States.

Bachelordom (n.) The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors.

Bachelorhood (n.) The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship.

Bachelorism (n.) Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging to bachelors.

Bachelor's button () A plant with flowers shaped like buttons; especially, several species of Ranunculus, and the cornflower (Centaures cyanus) and globe amaranth (Gomphrena).

Bachelorship (n.) The state of being a bachelor.

Bachelry (n.) The body of young aspirants for knighthood.

Bacillar (a.) Shaped like a rod or staff.

Bacillariae (n. pl.) See Diatom.

Bacillary (a.) Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped.

Bacilliform (a.) Rod-shaped.

Bacilli (pl. ) of Bacillus

Bacillus (n.) A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetable organism.

Back (n.) A large shallow vat; a cistern, tub, or trough, used by brewers, distillers, dyers, picklers, gluemakers, and others, for mixing or cooling wort, holding water, hot glue, etc.

Back (n.) A ferryboat. See Bac, 1.

Back (n.) In human beings, the hinder part of the body, extending from the neck to the end of the spine; in other animals, that part of the body which corresponds most nearly to such part of a human being; as, the back of a horse, fish, or lobster.

Back (n.) An extended upper part, as of a mountain or ridge.

Back (n.) The outward or upper part of a thing, as opposed to the inner or lower part; as, the back of the hand, the back of the foot, the back of a hand rail.

Back (n.) The part opposed to the front; the hinder or rear part of a thing; as, the back of a book; the back of an army; the back of a chimney.

Back (n.) The part opposite to, or most remote from, that which fronts the speaker or actor; or the part out of sight, or not generally seen; as, the back of an island, of a hill, or of a village.

Back (n.) The part of a cutting tool on the opposite side from its edge; as, the back of a knife, or of a saw.

Back (n.) A support or resource in reserve.

Back (n.) The keel and keelson of a ship.

Back (n.) The upper part of a lode, or the roof of a horizontal underground passage.

Back (n.) A garment for the back; hence, clothing.

Back (a.) Being at the back or in the rear; distant; remote; as, the back door; back settlements.

Back (a.) Being in arrear; overdue; as, back rent.

Back (a.) Moving or operating backward; as, back action.

Backed (imp. & p. p.) of Back

Backing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Back

Back (v. i.) To get upon the back of; to mount.

Back (v. i.) To place or seat upon the back.

Back (v. i.) To drive or force backward; to cause to retreat or recede; as, to back oxen.

Back (v. i.) To make a back for; to furnish with a back; as, to back books.

Back (v. i.) To adjoin behind; to be at the back of.

Back (v. i.) To write upon the back of; as, to back a letter; to indorse; as, to back a note or legal document.

Back (v. i.) To support; to maintain; to second or strengthen by aid or influence; as, to back a friend.

Back (v. i.) To bet on the success of; -- as, to back a race horse.

Back (v. i.) To move or go backward; as, the horse refuses to back.

Back (v. i.) To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to that of the sun; -- used of the wind.

Back (v. i.) To stand still behind another dog which has pointed; -- said of a dog.

Back (adv.) In, to, or toward, the rear; as, to stand back; to step back.

Back (adv.) To the place from which one came; to the place or person from which something is taken or derived; as, to go back for something left behind; to go back to one's native place; to put a book back after reading it.

Back (adv.) To a former state, condition, or station; as, to go back to private life; to go back to barbarism.

Back (adv.) (Of time) In times past; ago.

Back (adv.) Away from contact; by reverse movement.

Back (adv.) In concealment or reserve; in one's own possession; as, to keep back the truth; to keep back part of the money due to another.

Back (adv.) In a state of restraint or hindrance.

Back (adv.) In return, repayment, or requital.

Back (adv.) In withdrawal from a statement, promise, or undertaking; as, he took back0 the offensive words.

Back (adv.) In arrear; as, to be back in one's rent.

Backarack (n.) See Bacharach.

Backare (interj.) Same as Baccare.

Backband (n.) The band which passes over the back of a horse and holds up the shafts of a carriage.

Backbite (v. i.) To wound by clandestine detraction; to censure meanly or spitefully (an absent person); to slander or speak evil of (one absent).

Backbite (v. i.) To censure or revile the absent.

Backbiter (n.) One who backbites; a secret calumniator or detractor.

Backbiting (n.) Secret slander; detraction.

Backboard (n.) A board which supports the back wen one is sitting;

Backboard (n.) A board serving as the back part of anything, as of a wagon.

Backboard (n.) A thin stuff used for the backs of framed pictures, mirrors, etc.

Backboard (n.) A board attached to the rim of a water wheel to prevent the water from running off the floats or paddies into the interior of the wheel.

Backboard (n.) A board worn across the back to give erectness to the figure.

Backbond (n.) An instrument which, in conjunction with another making an absolute disposition, constitutes a trust.

Backbone (n.) The column of bones in the back which sustains and gives firmness to the frame; the spine; the vertebral or spinal column.

Backbone (n.) Anything like , or serving the purpose of, a backbone.

Backbone (n.) Firmness; moral principle; steadfastness.

Backboned (a.) Vertebrate.

Backcast (n.) Anything which brings misfortune upon one, or causes failure in an effort or enterprise; a reverse.

Back door () A door in the back part of a building; hence, an indirect way.

Backdoor (a.) Acting from behind and in concealment; as, backdoor intrigues.

Backdown (n.) A receding or giving up; a complete surrender.

Backed (a.) Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype or stereotype plate. Used in composition; as, broad-backed; hump-backed.

Backer (n.) One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs a person or thing in a contest.

Backfall (n.) A fall or throw on the back in wrestling.

Backfriend (n.) A secret enemy.

Backgammon (n.) A game of chance and skill, played by two persons on a board marked off into twenty-four spaces called points. Each player has fifteen pieces, or men, the movements of which from point to point are determined by throwing dice. Formerly called tables.

Backgammon (v. i.) In the game of backgammon, to beat by ending the game before the loser is clear of his first table.

Background (n.) Ground in the rear or behind, or in the distance, as opposed to the foreground, or the ground in front.

Background (n.) The space which is behind and subordinate to a portrait or group of figures.

Background (n.) Anything behind, serving as a foil; as, the statue had a background of red hangings.

Background (n.) A place in obscurity or retirement, or out of sight.

Backhand (n.) A kind of handwriting in which the downward slope of the letters is from left to right.

Backhand (a.) Sloping from left to right; -- said of handwriting.

Backhand (a.) Backhanded; indirect; oblique.

Backhanded (a.) With the hand turned backward; as, a backhanded blow.

Backhanded (a.) Indirect; awkward; insincere; sarcastic; as, a backhanded compliment.

Backhanded (a.) Turned back, or inclining to the left; as, a backhanded letters.

Backhandedness (n.) State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirect methods.

Backhander (n.) A backhanded blow.

Backhouse (n.) A building behind the main building. Specifically: A privy; a necessary.

Backing (n.) The act of moving backward, or of putting or moving anything backward.

Backing (n.) That which is behind, and forms the back of, anything, usually giving strength or stability.

Backing (n.) Support or aid given to a person or cause.

Backing (n.) The preparation of the back of a book with glue, etc., before putting on the cover.

Backjoint (n.) A rebate or chase in masonry left to receive a permanent slab or other filling.

Backlash (n.) The distance through which one part of connected machinery, as a wheel, piston, or screw, can be moved without moving the connected parts, resulting from looseness in fitting or from wear; also, the jarring or reflex motion caused in badly fitting machinery by irregularities in velocity or a reverse of motion.

Backless (a.) Without a back.

Backlog (n.) A large stick of wood, forming the back of a fire on the hearth.

Backpiece (n.) Alt. of Backplate

Backplate (n.) A piece, or plate which forms the back of anything, or which covers the back; armor for the back.

Backrack (n.) Alt. of Backrag

Backrag (n.) See Bacharach.

Backs (n. pl.) Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides.

Backsaw (n.) A saw (as a tenon saw) whose blade is stiffened by an added metallic back.

Backset (n.) A check; a relapse; a discouragement; a setback.

Backset (n.) Whatever is thrown back in its course, as water.

Backset (v. i.) To plow again, in the fall; -- said of prairie land broken up in the spring.

Backsettler (n.) One living in the back or outlying districts of a community.

Backsheesh (n.) Alt. of Backshish

Backshish (n.) In Egypt and the Turkish empire, a gratuity; a tip.

Backside (n.) The hinder part, posteriors, or rump of a person or animal.

Backsight (n.) The reading of the leveling staff in its unchanged position when the leveling instrument has been taken to a new position; a sight directed backwards to a station previously occupied. Cf. Foresight, n., 3.

Backslid (imp.) of Backslide

Backslidden (p. p.) of Backslide

Backslid () of Backslide

Backsliding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Backslide

Backslide (v. i.) To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually the faith and practice of a religion that has been professed.

Backslider (n.) One who backslides.

Backsliding (a.) Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning.

Backsliding (n.) The act of one who backslides; abandonment of faith or duty.

Backstaff (n.) An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of the heavenly bodies, but now superseded by the quadrant and sextant; -- so called because the observer turned his back to the body observed.

Back stairs () Stairs in the back part of a house, as distinguished from the front stairs; hence, a private or indirect way.

Backstairs (a.) Alt. of Backstair

Backstair (a.) Private; indirect; secret; intriguing; -- as if finding access by the back stairs.

Backstay (n.) A rope or stay extending from the masthead to the side of a ship, slanting a little aft, to assist the shrouds in supporting the mast.

Backstay (n.) A rope or strap used to prevent excessive forward motion.

Backster (n.) A backer.

Backstitch (n.) A stitch made by setting the needle back of the end of the last stitch, and bringing it out in front of the end.

Backstitch (v. i.) To sew with backstitches; as, to backstitch a seam.

Backstress (n.) A female baker.

Backsword (n.) A sword with one sharp edge.

Backsword (n.) In England, a stick with a basket handle, used in rustic amusements; also, the game in which the stick is used. Also called singlestick.

Backward (adv.) Alt. of Backwards

Backwards (adv.) With the back in advance or foremost; as, to ride backward.

Backwards (adv.) Toward the back; toward the rear; as, to throw the arms backward.

Backwards (adv.) On the back, or with the back downward.

Backwards (adv.) Toward, or in, past time or events; ago.

Backwards (adv.) By way of reflection; reflexively.

Backwards (adv.) From a better to a worse state, as from honor to shame, from religion to sin.

Backwards (adv.) In a contrary or reverse manner, way, or direction; contrarily; as, to read backwards.

Backward (a.) Directed to the back or rear; as, backward glances.

Backward (a.) Unwilling; averse; reluctant; hesitating; loath.

Backward (a.) Not well advanced in learning; not quick of apprehension; dull; inapt; as, a backward child.

Backward (a.) Late or behindhand; as, a backward season.

Backward (a.) Not advanced in civilization; undeveloped; as, the country or region is in a backward state.

Backward (a.) Already past or gone; bygone.

Backward (n.) The state behind or past.

Backward (v. i.) To keep back; to hinder.

Backwardation (n.) The seller's postponement of delivery of stock or shares, with the consent of the buyer, upon payment of a premium to the latter; -- also, the premium so paid. See Contango.

Backwardly (adv.) Reluctantly; slowly; aversely.

Backwardly (adv.) Perversely; ill.

Backwardness (n.) The state of being backward.

Backwash (v. i.) To clean the oil from (wood) after combing.

Backwater (n.) Water turned back in its course by an obstruction, an opposing current , or the flow of the tide, as in a sewer or river channel, or across a river bar.

Backwater (n.) An accumulation of water overflowing the low lands, caused by an obstruction.

Backwater (n.) Water thrown back by the turning of a waterwheel, or by the paddle wheels of a steamer.

Backwoods (n. pl.) The forests or partly cleared grounds on the frontiers.

Backwoodsmen (pl. ) of Backwoodsman

Backwoodsman (n.) A man living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements, especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of the United States.

Backworm (n.) A disease of hawks. See Filanders.

Bacon (n.) The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, the flesh of a pig salted or fresh.

Baconian (a.) Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon, or to his system of philosophy.

Bacteria (n.p.) See Bacterium.

Bacterial (a.) Of or pertaining to bacteria.

Bactericidal (a.) Destructive of bacteria.

Bactericide (n.) Same as Germicide.

Bacteriological (a.) Of or pertaining to bacteriology; as, bacteriological studies.

Bacteriologist (n.) One skilled in bacteriology.

Bacteriology (n.) The science relating to bacteria.

Bacterioscopic (a.) Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination.

Bacterioscopist (n.) One skilled in bacterioscopic examinations.

Bacterioscopy (n.) The application of a knowledge of bacteria for their detection and identification, as in the examination of polluted water.

Bacteria (pl. ) of Bacterium

Bacterium (n.) A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algae, usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found in putrefying organic infusions. Bacteria are destitute of chlorophyll, and are the smallest of microscopic organisms. They are very widely diffused in nature, and multiply with marvelous rapidity, both by fission and by spores. Certain species are active agents in fermentation, while others appear to be the cause of certain infectious diseases. See Bacillus.

Bacteroid (a.) Alt. of Bacteroidal

Bacteroidal (a.) Resembling bacteria; as, bacteroid particles.

Bactrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Bactria in Asia.

Bactrian (n.) A native of Bactria.

Bacule (n.) See Bascule.

Baculine (a.) Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod.

Baculite (n.) A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil in the Cretaceous rocks. It is like an uncoiled ammonite.

Baculometry (n.) Measurement of distance or altitude by a staff or staffs.

Bad (imp.) Bade.

Bad (superl.) Wanting good qualities, whether physical or moral; injurious, hurtful, inconvenient, offensive, painful, unfavorable, or defective, either physically or morally; evil; vicious; wicked; -- the opposite of good; as, a bad man; bad conduct; bad habits; bad soil; bad health; bad crop; bad news.

Badder () compar. of Bad, a.

Badderlocks (n.) A large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten in Europe; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware.

Baddish (a.) Somewhat bad; inferior.

Bade () A form of the pat tense of Bid.

Badge (n.) A distinctive mark, token, sign, or cognizance, worn on the person; as, the badge of a society; the badge of a policeman.

Badge (n.) Something characteristic; a mark; a token.

Badge (n.) A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a window or the representation of one.

Badge (v. t.) To mark or distinguish with a badge.

Badgeless (a.) Having no badge.

Badger (n.) An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought grain in one place and sold it in another.

Badger (n.) A carnivorous quadruped of the genus Meles or of an allied genus. It is a burrowing animal, with short, thick legs, and long claws on the fore feet. One species (M. vulgaris), called also brock, inhabits the north of Europe and Asia; another species (Taxidea Americana / Labradorica) inhabits the northern parts of North America. See Teledu.

Badger (n.) A brush made of badgers' hair, used by artists.

Badgered (imp. & p. p.) of Badger

Badgering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Badger

Badger (v. t.) To tease or annoy, as a badger when baited; to worry or irritate persistently.

Badger (v. t.) To beat down; to cheapen; to barter; to bargain.

Badgerer (n.) One who badgers.

Badgerer (n.) A kind of dog used in badger baiting.

Badgering (n.) The act of one who badgers.

Badgering (n.) The practice of buying wheat and other kinds of food in one place and selling them in another for a profit.

Badger-legged (a.) Having legs of unequal length, as the badger was thought to have.

Badiaga (n.) A fresh-water sponge (Spongilla), common in the north of Europe, the powder of which is used to take away the livid marks of bruises.

Badian (n.) An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illicium anisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise.

Badigeon (n.) A cement or paste (as of plaster and freestone, or of sawdust and glue or lime) used by sculptors, builders, and workers in wood or stone, to fill holes, cover defects, or finish a surface.

Badinage (n.) Playful raillery; banter.

Bad lands () Barren regions, especially in the western United States, where horizontal strata (Tertiary deposits) have been often eroded into fantastic forms, and much intersected by caons, and where lack of wood, water, and forage increases the difficulty of traversing the country, whence the name, first given by the Canadian French, Mauvaises Terres (bad lands).

Badly (adv.) In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly; unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably; seriously.

Badminton (n.) A game, similar to lawn tennis, played with shuttlecocks.

Badminton (n.) A preparation of claret, spiced and sweetened.

Badness (n.) The state of being bad.

Baenomere (n.) One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax of Arthropods.

Baenopod (n.) One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods.

Baenosome (n.) The thorax of Arthropods.

Baff (n.) A blow; a stroke.

Baffled (imp. & p. p.) of Baffle

Baffling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baffle

Baffle (v. t.) To cause to undergo a disgraceful punishment, as a recreant knight.

Baffle (v. t.) To check by shifts and turns; to elude; to foil.

Baffle (v. t.) To check by perplexing; to disconcert, frustrate, or defeat; to thwart.

Baffle (v. i.) To practice deceit.

Baffle (v. i.) To struggle against in vain; as, a ship baffles with the winds.

Baffle (n.) A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture.

Bafflement (n.) The process or act of baffling, or of being baffled; frustration; check.

Baffler (n.) One who, or that which, baffles.

Baffling (a.) Frustrating; discomfiting; disconcerting; as, baffling currents, winds, tasks.

Baft (n.) Same as Bafta.

Bafta (n.) A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India. Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export.

Bag (n.) A sack or pouch, used for holding anything; as, a bag of meal or of money.

Bag (n.) A sac, or dependent gland, in animal bodies, containing some fluid or other substance; as, the bag of poison in the mouth of some serpents; the bag of a cow.

Bag (n.) A sort of silken purse formerly tied about men's hair behind, by way of ornament.

Bag (n.) The quantity of game bagged.

Bag (n.) A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary to carry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag of coffee.

Bagged (imp. & p. p.) of Bag

Bagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bag

Bag (v. t.) To put into a bag; as, to bag hops.

Bag (v. t.) To seize, capture, or entrap; as, to bag an army; to bag game.

Bag (v. t.) To furnish or load with a bag or with a well filled bag.

Bag (v. i.) To swell or hang down like a full bag; as, the skin bags from containing morbid matter.

Bag (v. i.) To swell with arrogance.

Bag (v. i.) To become pregnant.

Bagasse (n.) Sugar cane, as it comes crushed from the mill. It is then dried and used as fuel. Also extended to the refuse of beetroot sugar.

Bagatelle (n.) A trifle; a thing of no importance.

Bagatelle (n.) A game played on an oblong board, having, at one end, cups or arches into or through which balls are to be driven by a rod held in the hand of the player.

Baggage (n.) The clothes, tents, utensils, and provisions of an army.

Baggage (n.) The trunks, valises, satchels, etc., which a traveler carries with him on a journey; luggage.

Baggage (n.) Purulent matter.

Baggage (n.) Trashy talk.

Baggage (n.) A man of bad character.

Baggage (n.) A woman of loose morals; a prostitute.

Baggage (n.) A romping, saucy girl.

Baggage master () One who has charge of the baggage at a railway station or upon a line of public travel.

Baggager (n.) One who takes care of baggage; a camp follower.

Baggala (n.) A two-masted Arab or Indian trading vessel, used in Indian Ocean.

Baggily (adv.) In a loose, baggy way.

Bagging (n.) Cloth or other material for bags.

Bagging (n.) The act of putting anything into, or as into, a bag.

Bagging (n.) The act of swelling; swelling.

Bagging (n.) Reaping peas, beans, wheat, etc., with a chopping stroke.

Baggy (a.) Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag; flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks.

Bagmen (pl. ) of Bagman

Bagman (n.) A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders for manufacturers and tradesmen.

Bag net () A bag-shaped net for catching fish.

Bagnio (n.) A house for bathing, sweating, etc.; -- also, in Turkey, a prison for slaves.

Bagnio (n.) A brothel; a stew; a house of prostitution.

Bagpipe (n.) A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands of Scotland.

Bagpipe (v. t.) To make to look like a bagpipe.

Bagpiper (n.) One who plays on a bagpipe; a piper.

Bagreef (n.) The lower reef of fore and aft sails; also, the upper reef of topsails.

Bague (n.) The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaft or clustered column into two or more parts.

Baguet (n.) Alt. of Baguette

Baguette (n.) A small molding, like the astragal, but smaller; a bead.

Baguette (n.) One of the minute bodies seen in the divided nucleoli of some Infusoria after conjugation.

Bagwig (n.) A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back of the head in a bag.

Bagworm (n.) One of several lepidopterous insects which construct, in the larval state, a baglike case which they carry about for protection. One species (Platoeceticus Gloveri) feeds on the orange tree. See Basket worm.

Bah (interj.) An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt.

Bahar (n.) A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varying considerably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625 pounds.

Baigne (v. i.) To soak or drench.

Bail (n.) A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat.

Bailed (imp. & p. p.) of Bail

Bailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bail

Bail (v. t.) To lade; to dip and throw; -- usually with out; as, to bail water out of a boat.

Bail (v. t.) To dip or lade water from; -- often with out to express completeness; as, to bail a boat.

Bail (v./t.) To deliver; to release.

Bail (v./t.) To set free, or deliver from arrest, or out of custody, on the undertaking of some other person or persons that he or they will be responsible for the appearance, at a certain day and place, of the person bailed.

Bail (v./t.) To deliver, as goods in trust, for some special object or purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall be faithfully executed on the part of the bailee, or person intrusted; as, to bail cloth to a tailor to be made into a garment; to bail goods to a carrier.

Bail (n.) Custody; keeping.

Bail (n.) The person or persons who procure the release of a prisoner from the custody of the officer, or from imprisonment, by becoming surely for his appearance in court.

Bail (n.) The security given for the appearance of a prisoner in order to obtain his release from custody of the officer; as, the man is out on bail; to go bail for any one.

Bail (n.) The arched handle of a kettle, pail, or similar vessel, usually movable.

Bail (n.) A half hoop for supporting the cover of a carrier's wagon, awning of a boat, etc.

Bail (n.) A line of palisades serving as an exterior defense.

Bail (n.) The outer wall of a feudal castle. Hence: The space inclosed by it; the outer court.

Bail (n.) A certain limit within a forest.

Bail (n.) A division for the stalls of an open stable.

Bail (n.) The top or cross piece ( or either of the two cross pieces) of the wicket.

Bailable (a.) Having the right or privilege of being admitted to bail, upon bond with sureties; -- used of persons.

Bailable (a.) Admitting of bail; as, a bailable offense.

Bailable (a.) That can be delivered in trust; as, bailable goods.

Bail bond () A bond or obligation given by a prisoner and his surety, to insure the prisoner's appearance in court, at the return of the writ.

Bail bond () Special bail in court to abide the judgment.

Bailee (n.) The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has a temporary possession and a qualified property in them, for the purposes of the trust.

Bailer (n.) See Bailor.

Bailer (n.) One who bails or lades.

Bailer (n.) A utensil, as a bucket or cup, used in bailing; a machine for bailing water out of a pit.

Bailey (n.) The outer wall of a feudal castle.

Bailey (n.) The space immediately within the outer wall of a castle or fortress.

Bailey (n.) A prison or court of justice; -- used in certain proper names; as, the Old Bailey in London; the New Bailey in Manchester.

Bailie (n.) An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded to that of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman.

Bailiff (n.) Originally, a person put in charge of something especially, a chief officer, magistrate, or keeper, as of a county, town, hundred, or castle; one to whom power/ of custody or care are intrusted.

Bailiff (n.) A sheriff's deputy, appointed to make arrests, collect fines, summon juries, etc.

Bailiff (n.) An overseer or under steward of an estate, who directs husbandry operations, collects rents, etc.

Bailiffwick (n.) See Bailiwick.

Bailiwick (n.) The precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; the limits of a bailiff's authority.

Baillie (n.) Bailiff.

Baillie (n.) Same as Bailie.

Bailment (n.) The action of bailing a person accused.

Bailment (n.) A delivery of goods or money by one person to another in trust, for some special purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall be faithfully executed.

Bailor (n.) One who delivers goods or money to another in trust.

Bailpiece (n.) A piece of parchment, or paper, containing a recognizance or bail bond.

Bain (n.) A bath; a bagnio.

Bain-marie (n.) A vessel for holding hot water in which another vessel may be heated without scorching its contents; -- used for warming or preparing food or pharmaceutical preparations.

Bairam (n.) The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held at the close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy days after the fast.

Bairn (n.) A child.

Baisemains (n. pl.) Respects; compliments.

Bait (v. i.) Any substance, esp. food, used in catching fish, or other animals, by alluring them to a hook, snare, inclosure, or net.

Bait (v. i.) Anything which allures; a lure; enticement; temptation.

Bait (v. i.) A portion of food or drink, as a refreshment taken on a journey; also, a stop for rest and refreshment.

Bait (v. i.) A light or hasty luncheon.

Baited (imp. & p. p.) of Bait

Baiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bait

Bait (v. t.) To provoke and harass; esp., to harass or torment for sport; as, to bait a bear with dogs; to bait a bull.

Bait (v. t.) To give a portion of food and drink to, upon the road; as, to bait horses.

Bait (v. t.) To furnish or cover with bait, as a trap or hook.

Bait (v. i.) To stop to take a portion of food and drink for refreshment of one's self or one's beasts, on a journey.

Bait (v. i.) To flap the wings; to flutter as if to fly; or to hover, as a hawk when she stoops to her prey.

Baiter (n.) One who baits; a tormentor.

Baize (n.) A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors.

Bajocco (n.) A small copper coin formerly current in the Roman States, worth about a cent and a half.

Baked (imp. & p. p.) of Bake

Baking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bake

Bake (v. t.) To prepare, as food, by cooking in a dry heat, either in an oven or under coals, or on heated stone or metal; as, to bake bread, meat, apples.

Bake (v. t.) To dry or harden (anything) by subjecting to heat, as, to bake bricks; the sun bakes the ground.

Bake (v. t.) To harden by cold.

Bake (v. i.) To do the work of baking something; as, she brews, washes, and bakes.

Bake (v. i.) To be baked; to become dry and hard in heat; as, the bread bakes; the ground bakes in the hot sun.

Bake (n.) The process, or result, of baking.

Bakehouse (v. t.) A house for baking; a bakery.

Bakemeat (n.) Alt. of Baked-meat

Baked-meat (n.) A pie; baked food.

Baken () p. p. of Bake.

Baker (v. i.) One whose business it is to bake bread, biscuit, etc.

Baker (v. i.) A portable oven in which baking is done.

Baker-legged (a.) Having legs that bend inward at the knees.

Bakery (n.) The trade of a baker.

Bakery (n.) The place for baking bread; a bakehouse.

Baking (n.) The act or process of cooking in an oven, or of drying and hardening by heat or cold.

Baking (n.) The quantity baked at once; a batch; as, a baking of bread.

Bakingly (adv.) In a hot or baking manner.

Bakistre (n.) A baker.

Baksheesh (n.) Alt. of Bakshish

Bakshish (n.) Same as Backsheesh.

Balaam (n.) A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out a newspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's ass speaking.

Balachong (n.) A condiment formed of small fishes or shrimps, pounded up with salt and spices, and then dried. It is much esteemed in China.

Balaenoidea (n.) A division of the Cetacea, including the right whale and all other whales having the mouth fringed with baleen. See Baleen.

Balance (n.) An apparatus for weighing.

Balance (n.) Act of weighing mentally; comparison; estimate.

Balance (n.) Equipoise between the weights in opposite scales.

Balance (n.) The state of being in equipoise; equilibrium; even adjustment; steadiness.

Balance (n.) An equality between the sums total of the two sides of an account; as, to bring one's accounts to a balance; -- also, the excess on either side; as, the balance of an account.

Balance (n.) A balance wheel, as of a watch, or clock. See Balance wheel (in the Vocabulary).

Balance (n.) The constellation Libra.

Balance (n.) The seventh sign in the Zodiac, called Libra, which the sun enters at the equinox in September.

Balance (n.) A movement in dancing. See Balance, v. i., S.

Balanced (imp. & p. p.) of Balance

Balancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Balance

Balance (n.) To bring to an equipoise, as the scales of a balance by adjusting the weights; to weigh in a balance.

Balance (n.) To support on a narrow base, so as to keep from falling; as, to balance a plate on the end of a cane; to balance one's self on a tight rope.

Balance (n.) To equal in number, weight, force, or proportion; to counterpoise, counterbalance, counteract, or neutralize.

Balance (n.) To compare in relative force, importance, value, etc.; to estimate.

Balance (n.) To settle and adjust, as an account; to make two accounts equal by paying the difference between them.

Balance (n.) To make the sums of the debits and credits of an account equal; -- said of an item; as, this payment, or credit, balances the account.

Balance (n.) To arrange accounts in such a way that the sum total of the debits is equal to the sum total of the credits; as, to balance a set of books.

Balance (n.) To move toward, and then back from, reciprocally; as, to balance partners.

Balance (n.) To contract, as a sail, into a narrower compass; as, to balance the boom mainsail.

Balance (v. i.) To have equal weight on each side; to be in equipoise; as, the scales balance.

Balance (v. i.) To fluctuate between motives which appear of equal force; to waver; to hesitate.

Balance (v. i.) To move toward a person or couple, and then back.

Balanceable (a.) Such as can be balanced.

Balancement (n.) The act or result of balancing or adjusting; equipoise; even adjustment of forces.

Balancer (n.) One who balances, or uses a balance.

Balancer (n.) In Diptera, the rudimentary posterior wing.

Balancereef (n.) The last reef in a fore-and-aft sail, taken to steady the ship.

Balance wheel () A wheel which regulates the beats or pulses of a watch or chronometer, answering to the pendulum of a clock; -- often called simply a balance.

Balance wheel () A ratchet-shaped scape wheel, which in some watches is acted upon by the axis of the balance wheel proper (in those watches called a balance).

Balance wheel () A wheel which imparts regularity to the movements of any engine or machine; a fly wheel.

Balaniferous (a.) Bearing or producing acorns.

Balanite (n.) A fossil balanoid shell.

Balanoglossus (n.) A peculiar marine worm. See Enteropneusta, and Tornaria.

Balanoid (a.) Resembling an acorn; -- applied to a group of barnacles having shells shaped like acorns. See Acornshell, and Barnacle.

Balas ruby () A variety of spinel ruby, of a pale rose red, or inclining to orange. See Spinel.

Balaustine (n.) The pomegranate tree (Punica granatum). The bark of the root, the rind of the fruit, and the flowers are used medicinally.

Balbutiate (v. i.) Alt. of Balbucinate

Balbucinate (v. i.) To stammer.

Balbuties (n.) The defect of stammering; also, a kind of incomplete pronunciation.

Balcon (n.) A balcony.

Balconied (a.) Having balconies.

Balconies (pl. ) of Balcony

Balcony (n.) A platform projecting from the wall of a building, usually resting on brackets or consoles, and inclosed by a parapet; as, a balcony in front of a window. Also, a projecting gallery in places of amusement; as, the balcony in a theater.

Balcony (n.) A projecting gallery once common at the stern of large ships.

Bald (a.) Destitute of the natural or common covering on the head or top, as of hair, feathers, foliage, trees, etc.; as, a bald head; a bald oak.

Bald (a.) Destitute of ornament; unadorned; bare; literal.

Bald (a.) Undisguised.

Bald (a.) Destitute of dignity or value; paltry; mean.

Bald (a.) Destitute of a beard or awn; as, bald wheat.

Bald (a.) Destitute of the natural covering.

Bald (a.) Marked with a white spot on the head; bald-faced.

Baldachin (n.) A rich brocade; baudekin.

Baldachin (n.) A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported by columns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from the wall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St. Peter's.

Baldachin (n.) A portable canopy borne over shrines, etc., in procession.

Bald eagle () The white-headed eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) of America. The young, until several years old, lack the white feathers on the head.

Balder (n.) The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace; the son of Odin and Freya.

Balderdash (n.) A worthless mixture, especially of liquors.

Balderdash (n.) Senseless jargon; ribaldry; nonsense; trash.

Balderdash (v. t.) To mix or adulterate, as liquors.

Bald-faced (a.) Having a white face or a white mark on the face, as a stag.

Baldhead (n.) A person whose head is bald.

Baldhead (n.) A white-headed variety of pigeon.

Baldheaded (a.) Having a bald head.

Baldly (adv.) Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly.

Baldness (n.) The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head; baldness of style.

Baldpate (n.) A baldheaded person.

Baldpate (n.) The American widgeon (Anas Americana).

Baldpate (a.) Alt. of Baldpated

Baldpated (a.) Destitute of hair on the head; baldheaded.

Baldrib (n.) A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destitute of fat.

Baldric (n.) A broad belt, sometimes richly ornamented, worn over one shoulder, across the breast, and under the opposite arm; less properly, any belt.

Baldwin (n.) A kind of reddish, moderately acid, winter apple.

Bale (n.) A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded for storage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw / hay, etc., put up compactly for transportation.

Baled (imp. & p. p.) of Bale

Baling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bale

Bale (v. t.) To make up in a bale.

Bale (v. t.) See Bail, v. t., to lade.

Bale (n.) Misery; calamity; misfortune; sorrow.

Bale (n.) Evil; an evil, pernicious influence; something causing great injury.

Balearic (a.) Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc., in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia.

Baleen (n.) Plates or blades of whalebone, from two to twelve feet long, and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balaenoidea) are attached side by side along the upper jaw, and form a fringelike sieve by which the food is retained in the mouth.

Balefire (n.) A signal fire; an alarm fire.

Baleful (a.) Full of deadly or pernicious influence; destructive.

Baleful (a.) Full of grief or sorrow; woeful; sad.

Balefully (adv.) In a baleful manner; perniciously.

Balefulness (n.) The quality or state of being baleful.

Balisaur (n.) A badgerlike animal of India (Arcionyx collaris).

Balister (n.) A crossbow.

Balistoid (a.) Like a fish of the genus Balistes; of the family Balistidae. See Filefish.

Balistraria (n.) A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows might be discharged.

Balize (n.) A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark.

Balk (v. i.) A ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside.

Balk (v. i.) A great beam, rafter, or timber; esp., the tie-beam of a house. The loft above was called the balks.

Balk (v. i.) One of the beams connecting the successive supports of a trestle bridge or bateau bridge.

Balk (v. i.) A hindrance or disappointment; a check.

Balk (v. i.) A sudden and obstinate stop; a failure.

Balk (v. i.) A deceptive gesture of the pitcher, as if to deliver the ball.

Balked (imp. & p. p.) of Balk

Balking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Balk

Balk (v. t.) To leave or make balks in.

Balk (v. t.) To leave heaped up; to heap up in piles.

Balk (v. t.) To omit, miss, or overlook by chance.

Balk (v. t.) To miss intentionally; to avoid; to shun; to refuse; to let go by; to shirk.

Balk (v. t.) To disappoint; to frustrate; to foil; to baffle; to /hwart; as, to balk expectation.

Balk (v. i.) To engage in contradiction; to be in opposition.

Balk (v. i.) To stop abruptly and stand still obstinately; to jib; to stop short; to swerve; as, the horse balks.

Balk (v. i.) To indicate to fishermen, by shouts or signals from shore, the direction taken by the shoals of herring.

Balker (n.) One who, or that which balks.

Balker (n.) A person who stands on a rock or eminence to espy the shoals of herring, etc., and to give notice to the men in boats which way they pass; a conder; a huer.

Balkingly (adv.) In a manner to balk or frustrate.

Balkish (a.) Uneven; ridgy.

Balky (a.) Apt to balk; as, a balky horse.

Ball (n.) Any round or roundish body or mass; a sphere or globe; as, a ball of twine; a ball of snow.

Ball (n.) A spherical body of any substance or size used to play with, as by throwing, knocking, kicking, etc.

Ball (n.) A general name for games in which a ball is thrown, kicked, or knocked. See Baseball, and Football.

Ball (n.) Any solid spherical, cylindrical, or conical projectile of lead or iron, to be discharged from a firearm; as, a cannon ball; a rifle ball; -- often used collectively; as, powder and ball. Spherical balls for the smaller firearms are commonly called bullets.

Ball (n.) A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled with combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or to produce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.

Ball (n.) A leather-covered cushion, fastened to a handle called a ballstock; -- formerly used by printers for inking the form, but now superseded by the roller.

Ball (n.) A roundish protuberant portion of some part of the body; as, the ball of the thumb; the ball of the foot.

Ball (n.) A large pill, a form in which medicine is commonly given to horses; a bolus.

Ball (n.) The globe or earth.

Balled (imp. & p. p.) of Ball

Balling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ball

Ball (v. i.) To gather balls which cling to the feet, as of damp snow or clay; to gather into balls; as, the horse balls; the snow balls.

Ball (v. t.) To heat in a furnace and form into balls for rolling.

Ball (v. t.) To form or wind into a ball; as, to ball cotton.

Ball (n.) A social assembly for the purpose of dancing.

Ballad (n.) A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation or singing; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental or romantic poem in short stanzas.

Ballad (v. i.) To make or sing ballads.

Ballad (v. t.) To make mention of in ballads.

Ballade (n.) A form of French versification, sometimes imitated in English, in which three or four rhymes recur through three stanzas of eight or ten lines each, the stanzas concluding with a refrain, and the whole poem with an envoy.

Ballader (n.) A writer of ballads.

Ballad monger () A seller or maker of ballads; a poetaster.

Balladry (n.) Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads.

Ballahoo (n.) Alt. of Ballahou

Ballahou (n.) A fast-sailing schooner, used in the Bermudas and West Indies.

Ballarag (v. i.) To bully; to threaten.

Ballast (a.) Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold to sink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.

Ballast (a.) Any heavy matter put into the car of a balloon to give it steadiness.

Ballast (a.) Gravel, broken stone, etc., laid in the bed of a railroad to make it firm and solid.

Ballast (a.) The larger solids, as broken stone or gravel, used in making concrete.

Ballast (a.) Fig.: That which gives, or helps to maintain, uprightness, steadiness, and security.

Ballasted (imp. & p. p.) of Ballast

Ballasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ballast

Ballast (v. t.) To steady, as a vessel, by putting heavy substances in the hold.

Ballast (v. t.) To fill in, as the bed of a railroad, with gravel, stone, etc., in order to make it firm and solid.

Ballast (v. t.) To keep steady; to steady, morally.

Ballastage (n.) A toll paid for the privilege of taking up ballast in a port or harbor.

Ballasting (n.) That which is used for steadying anything; ballast.

Ballatry (n.) See Balladry.

Ballet (n.) An artistic dance performed as a theatrical entertainment, or an interlude, by a number of persons, usually women. Sometimes, a scene accompanied by pantomime and dancing.

Ballet (n.) The company of persons who perform the ballet.

Ballet (n.) A light part song, or madrigal, with a fa la burden or chorus, -- most common with the Elizabethan madrigal composers.

Ballet (n.) A bearing in coats of arms, representing one or more balls, which are denominated bezants, plates, etc., according to color.

Ball-flower (n.) An ornament resembling a ball placed in a circular flower, the petals of which form a cup round it, -- usually inserted in a hollow molding.

Ballist/ (pl. ) of Ballista

Ballista (n.) An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used for hurling large missiles.

Ballister (n.) A crossbow.

Ballistic (a.) Of or pertaining to the ballista, or to the art of hurling stones or missile weapons by means of an engine.

Ballistic (a.) Pertaining to projection, or to a projectile.

Ballistics (n.) The science or art of hurling missile weapons by the use of an engine.

Ballium (n.) See Bailey.

Balloon (n.) A bag made of silk or other light material, and filled with hydrogen gas or heated air, so as to rise and float in the atmosphere; especially, one with a car attached for aerial navigation.

Balloon (n.) A ball or globe on the top of a pillar, church, etc., as at St. Paul's, in London.

Balloon (n.) A round vessel, usually with a short neck, to hold or receive whatever is distilled; a glass vessel of a spherical form.

Balloon (n.) A bomb or shell.

Balloon (n.) A game played with a large inflated ball.

Balloon (n.) The outline inclosing words represented as coming from the mouth of a pictured figure.

Balloon (v. t.) To take up in, or as if in, a balloon.

Balloon (v. i.) To go up or voyage in a balloon.

Balloon (v. i.) To expand, or puff out, like a balloon.

Ballooned (a.) Swelled out like a balloon.

Ballooner (n.) One who goes up in a balloon; an aeronaut.

Balloon fish () A fish of the genus Diodon or the genus Tetraodon, having the power of distending its body by taking air or water into its dilatable esophagus. See Globefish, and Bur fish.

Ballooning (n.) The art or practice of managing balloons or voyaging in them.

Ballooning (n.) The process of temporarily raising the value of a stock, as by fictitious sales.

Ballooning spider () A spider which has the habit of rising into the air. Many kinds ( esp. species of Lycosa) do this while young by ejecting threads of silk until the force of the wind upon them carries the spider aloft.

Balloonist (n.) An aeronaut.

Balloonry (n.) The art or practice of ascending in a balloon; aeronautics.

Ballot (n.) Originally, a ball used for secret voting. Hence: Any printed or written ticket used in voting.

Ballot (n.) The act of voting by balls or written or printed ballots or tickets; the system of voting secretly by balls or by tickets.

Ballot (n.) The whole number of votes cast at an election, or in a given territory or electoral district.

Balloted (imp. & p. p.) of Ballot

Balloting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ballot

Ballot (n.) To vote or decide by ballot; as, to ballot for a candidate.

Ballot (v. t.) To vote for or in opposition to.

Ballotade (v. i.) A leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straight line, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only the shoes of his hind feet, without jerking out.

Ballotation (n.) Voting by ballot.

Balloter (n.) One who votes by ballot.

Ballotin (n.) An officer who has charge of a ballot box.

Ballow (n.) A cudgel.

Ballproof (a.) Incapable of being penetrated by balls from firearms.

Ballroom (n.) A room for balls or dancing.

Balm (n.) An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.

Balm (n.) The resinous and aromatic exudation of certain trees or shrubs.

Balm (n.) Any fragrant ointment.

Balm (n.) Anything that heals or that mitigates pain.

Balm (v. i.) To anoint with balm, or with anything medicinal. Hence: To soothe; to mitigate.

Balmify (v. t.) To render balmy.

Balmily (adv.) In a balmy manner.

Balmoral (n.) A long woolen petticoat, worn immediately under the dress.

Balmoral (n.) A kind of stout walking shoe, laced in front.

Balmy (a.) Having the qualities of balm; odoriferous; aromatic; assuaging; soothing; refreshing; mild.

Balmy (a.) Producing balm.

Balneal (a.) Of or pertaining to a bath.

Balneary (n.) A bathing room.

Balneation (n.) The act of bathing.

Balneatory (a.) Belonging to a bath.

Balneography (n.) A description of baths.

Balneology (n.) A treatise on baths; the science of bathing.

Balneotherapy (n.) The treatment of disease by baths.

Balotade (n.) See Ballotade.

Balsa (n.) A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of South America.

Balsam (n.) A resin containing more or less of an essential or volatile oil.

Balsam (n.) A species of tree (Abies balsamea).

Balsam (n.) An annual garden plant (Impatiens balsamina) with beautiful flowers; balsamine.

Balsam (n.) Anything that heals, soothes, or restores.

Balsam (v. t.) To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; to render balsamic.

Balsamation (n.) The act of imparting balsamic properties.

Balsamation (n.) The art or process of embalming.

Balsamic (a.) Alt. of Balsamical

Balsamical (a.) Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling, balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative.

Balsamiferous (a.) Producing balsam.

Balsamine (n.) The Impatiens balsamina, or garden balsam.

Balsamous (a.) Having the quality of balsam; containing balsam.

Balter (v. t.) To stick together.

Baltic (a.) Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Sweden from Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea.

Baltimore bird () Alt. of Baltimore oriole

Baltimore oriole () A common American bird (Icterus galbula), named after Lord Baltimore, because its colors (black and orange red) are like those of his coat of arms; -- called also golden robin.

Baluster (n.) A small column or pilaster, used as a support to the rail of an open parapet, to guard the side of a staircase, or the front of a gallery. See Balustrade.

Balustered (a.) Having balusters.

Balustrade (n.) A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase, or the eaves of a building.

Bam (n.) An imposition; a cheat; a hoax.

Bam (v. t.) To cheat; to wheedle.

Bambino (n.) A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infant Christ wrapped in swaddling clothes.

Bambino (n.) Babe Ruth.

Bambocciade (n.) A representation of a grotesque scene from common or rustic life.

Bamboo (n.) A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing in tropical countries.

Bamboo (v. t.) To flog with the bamboo.

Bamboozled (imp. & p. p.) of Bamboozle

Bamboozling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bamboozle

Bamboozle (v. t.) To deceive by trickery; to cajole by confusing the senses; to hoax; to mystify; to humbug.

Bamboozler (n.) A swindler; one who deceives by trickery.

Ban (n.) A public proclamation or edict; a public order or notice, mandatory or prohibitory; a summons by public proclamation.

Ban (n.) A calling together of the king's (esp. the French king's) vassals for military service; also, the body of vassals thus assembled or summoned. In present usage, in France and Prussia, the most effective part of the population liable to military duty and not in the standing army.

Ban (n.) Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in church. See Banns (the common spelling in this sense).

Ban (n.) An interdiction, prohibition, or proscription.

Ban (n.) A curse or anathema.

Ban (n.) A pecuniary mulct or penalty laid upon a delinquent for offending against a ban; as, a mulct paid to a bishop by one guilty of sacrilege or other crimes.

Banned (imp. & p. p.) of Ban

Banning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ban

Ban (v. t.) To curse; to invoke evil upon.

Ban (v. t.) To forbid; to interdict.

Ban (v. i.) To curse; to swear.

Ban (n.) An ancient title of the warden of the eastern marches of Hungary; now, a title of the viceroy of Croatia and Slavonia.

Banal (a.) Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.

Banalities (pl. ) of Banality

Banality (n.) Something commonplace, hackneyed, or trivial; the commonplace, in speech.

Banana (n.) A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa sapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa.

Banat (n.) The territory governed by a ban.

Banc (n.) Alt. of Bank

Bancus (n.) Alt. of Bank

Bank (n.) A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court.

Banco (n.) A bank, especially that of Venice.

Band (v. t.) A fillet, strap, or any narrow ligament with which a thing is encircled, or fastened, or by which a number of things are tied, bound together, or confined; a fetter.

Band (v. t.) A continuous tablet, stripe, or series of ornaments, as of carved foliage, of color, or of brickwork, etc.

Band (v. t.) In Gothic architecture, the molding, or suite of moldings, which encircles the pillars and small shafts.

Band (v. t.) That which serves as the means of union or connection between persons; a tie.

Band (v. t.) A linen collar or ruff worn in the 16th and 17th centuries.

Band (v. t.) Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of a clerical, legal, or academic dress.

Band (v. t.) A narrow strip of cloth or other material on any article of dress, to bind, strengthen, ornament, or complete it.

Band (v. t.) A company of persons united in any common design, especially a body of armed men.

Band (v. t.) A number of musicians who play together upon portable musical instruments, especially those making a loud sound, as certain wind instruments (trumpets, clarinets, etc.), and drums, or cymbals.

Band (v. t.) A space between elevated lines or ribs, as of the fruits of umbelliferous plants.

Band (v. t.) A stripe, streak, or other mark transverse to the axis of the body.

Band (v. t.) A belt or strap.

Band (v. t.) A bond

Band (v. t.) Pledge; security.

Banded (imp. & p. p.) of Band

Banding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Band

Band (v. t.) To bind or tie with a band.

Band (v. t.) To mark with a band.

Band (v. t.) To unite in a troop, company, or confederacy.

Band (v. i.) To confederate for some common purpose; to unite; to conspire together.

Band (v. t.) To bandy; to drive away.

Band () imp. of Bind.

Bandage (n.) A fillet or strip of woven material, used in dressing and binding up wounds, etc.

Bandage (n.) Something resembling a bandage; that which is bound over or round something to cover, strengthen, or compress it; a ligature.

Bandaged (imp. & p. p.) of Bandage

Bandaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bandage

Bandage (v. t.) To bind, dress, or cover, with a bandage; as, to bandage the eyes.

Bandala (n.) A fabric made in Manilla from the older leaf sheaths of the abaca (Musa textilis).

Bandanna (n.) Alt. of Bandana

Bandana (n.) A species of silk or cotton handkerchief, having a uniformly dyed ground, usually of red or blue, with white or yellow figures of a circular, lozenge, or other simple form.

Bandana (n.) A style of calico printing, in which white or bright spots are produced upon cloth previously dyed of a uniform red or dark color, by discharging portions of the color by chemical means, while the rest of the cloth is under pressure.

Bandbox (n.) A light box of pasteboard or thin wood, usually cylindrical, for holding ruffs (the bands of the 17th century), collars, caps, bonnets, etc.

Bandeaux (pl. ) of Bandeau

Bandeau (n.) A narrow band or fillet; a part of a head-dress.

Bandelet (n.) Alt. of Bandlet

Bandlet (n.) A small band or fillet; any little band or flat molding, compassing a column, like a ring.

Bander (n.) One banded with others.

Banderole (n.) Alt. of Bandrol

Bandrol (n.) A little banner, flag, or streamer.

Band fish () A small red fish of the genus Cepola; the ribbon fish.

Bandicoot (n.) A species of very large rat (Mus giganteus), found in India and Ceylon. It does much injury to rice fields and gardens.

Bandicoot (n.) A ratlike marsupial animal (genus Perameles) of several species, found in Australia and Tasmania.

Banding plane () A plane used for cutting out grooves and inlaying strings and bands in straight and circular work.

Bandits (pl. ) of Bandit

Banditti (pl. ) of Bandit

Bandit (n.) An outlaw; a brigand.

Bandle (n.) An Irish measure of two feet in length.

Bandlet (n.) Same as Bandelet.

Bandmaster (n.) The conductor of a musical band.

Bandog (n.) A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chained or tied up.

Bandoleer (n.) Alt. of Bandolier

Bandolier (n.) A broad leather belt formerly worn by soldiers over the right shoulder and across the breast under the left arm. Originally it was used for supporting the musket and twelve cases for charges, but later only as a cartridge belt.

Bandolier (n.) One of the leather or wooden cases in which the charges of powder were carried.

Bandoline (n.) A glutinous pomatum for the fair.

Bandon (n.) Disposal; control; license.

Bandore (n.) A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; a pandore.

Bandrol (n.) Same as Banderole.

Bandy (n.) A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks.

Bandies (pl. ) of Bandy

Bandy (n.) A club bent at the lower part for striking a ball at play; a hockey stick.

Bandy (n.) The game played with such a club; hockey; shinney; bandy ball.

Bandied (imp. & p. p.) of Bandy

Bandying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bandy

Bandy (v. t.) To beat to and fro, as a ball in playing at bandy.

Bandy (v. t.) To give and receive reciprocally; to exchange.

Bandy (v. t.) To toss about, as from man to man; to agitate.

Bandy (v. i.) To content, as at some game in which each strives to drive the ball his own way.

Bandy (a.) Bent; crooked; curved laterally, esp. with the convex side outward; as, a bandy leg.

Bandy-legged (a.) Having crooked legs.

Bane (n.) That which destroys life, esp. poison of a deadly quality.

Bane (n.) Destruction; death.

Bane (n.) Any cause of ruin, or lasting injury; harm; woe.

Bane (n.) A disease in sheep, commonly termed the rot.

Bane (v. t.) To be the bane of; to ruin.

Baneberry (n.) A genus (Actaea) of plants, of the order Ranunculaceae, native in the north temperate zone. The red or white berries are poisonous.

Baneful (a.) Having poisonous qualities; deadly; destructive; injurious; noxious; pernicious.

Banewort (n.) Deadly nightshade.

Banged (imp. & p. p.) of Bang

Banging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bang

Bang (v. t.) To beat, as with a club or cudgel; to treat with violence; to handle roughly.

Bang (v. t.) To beat or thump, or to cause ( something) to hit or strike against another object, in such a way as to make a loud noise; as, to bang a drum or a piano; to bang a door (against the doorpost or casing) in shutting it.

Bang (v. i.) To make a loud noise, as if with a blow or succession of blows; as, the window blind banged and waked me; he was banging on the piano.

Bang (n.) A blow as with a club; a heavy blow.

Bang (n.) The sound produced by a sudden concussion.

Bang (v. t.) To cut squarely across, as the tail of a hors, or the forelock of human beings; to cut (the hair).

Bang (n.) The short, front hair combed down over the forehead, esp. when cut squarely across; a false front of hair similarly worn.

Bang (n.) Alt. of Bangue

Bangue (n.) See Bhang.

Banging (a.) Huge; great in size.

Bangle (v. t.) To waste by little and little; to fritter away.

Bangle (n.) An ornamental circlet, of glass, gold, silver, or other material, worn by women in India and Africa, and in some other countries, upon the wrist or ankle; a ring bracelet.

Banian (n.) A Hindoo trader, merchant, cashier, or money changer.

Banian (n.) A man's loose gown, like that worn by the Banians.

Banian (n.) The Indian fig. See Banyan.

Banished (imp. & p. p.) of Banish

Banishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Banish

Banish (v. t.) To condemn to exile, or compel to leave one's country, by authority of the ruling power.

Banish (v. t.) To drive out, as from a home or familiar place; -- used with from and out of.

Banish (v. t.) To drive away; to compel to depart; to dispel.

Banisher (n.) One who banishes.

Banishment (n.) The act of banishing, or the state of being banished.

Banister (n.) A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the guitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and is played with the fingers and hands.

Bank (n.) A mound, pile, or ridge of earth, raised above the surrounding level; hence, anything shaped like a mound or ridge of earth; as, a bank of clouds; a bank of snow.

Bank (n.) A steep acclivity, as the slope of a hill, or the side of a ravine.

Bank (n.) The margin of a watercourse; the rising ground bordering a lake, river, or sea, or forming the edge of a cutting, or other hollow.

Bank (n.) An elevation, or rising ground, under the sea; a shoal, shelf, or shallow; as, the banks of Newfoundland.

Bank (n.) The face of the coal at which miners are working.

Bank (n.) A deposit of ore or coal, worked by excavations above water level.

Bank (n.) The ground at the top of a shaft; as, ores are brought to bank.

Banked (imp. & p. p.) of Bank

Banking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bank

Bank (v. t.) To raise a mound or dike about; to inclose, defend, or fortify with a bank; to embank.

Bank (v. t.) To heap or pile up; as, to bank sand.

Bank (v. t.) To pass by the banks of.

Bank (n.) A bench, as for rowers in a galley; also, a tier of oars.

Bank (n.) The bench or seat upon which the judges sit.

Bank (n.) The regular term of a court of law, or the full court sitting to hear arguments upon questions of law, as distinguished from a sitting at Nisi Prius, or a court held for jury trials. See Banc.

Bank (n.) A sort of table used by printers.

Bank (n.) A bench, or row of keys belonging to a keyboard, as in an organ.

Bank (n.) An establishment for the custody, loan, exchange, or issue, of money, and for facilitating the transmission of funds by drafts or bills of exchange; an institution incorporated for performing one or more of such functions, or the stockholders (or their representatives, the directors), acting in their corporate capacity.

Bank (n.) The building or office used for banking purposes.

Bank (n.) A fund from deposits or contributions, to be used in transacting business; a joint stock or capital.

Bank (n.) The sum of money or the checks which the dealer or banker has as a fund, from which to draw his stakes and pay his losses.

Bank (n.) In certain games, as dominos, a fund of pieces from which the players are allowed to draw.

Bank (v. t.) To deposit in a bank.

Bank (v. i.) To keep a bank; to carry on the business of a banker.

Bank (v. i.) To deposit money in a bank; to have an account with a banker.

Bankable (a.) Receivable at a bank.

Bank bill () In America (and formerly in England), a promissory note of a bank payable to the bearer on demand, and used as currency; a bank note.

Bank bill () In England, a note, or a bill of exchange, of a bank, payable to order, and usually at some future specified time. Such bills are negotiable, but form, in the strict sense of the term, no part of the currency.

Bank book () A book kept by a depositor, in which an officer of a bank enters the debits and credits of the depositor's account with the bank.

Banker (n.) One who conducts the business of banking; one who, individually, or as a member of a company, keeps an establishment for the deposit or loan of money, or for traffic in money, bills of exchange, etc.

Banker (n.) A money changer.

Banker (n.) The dealer, or one who keeps the bank in a gambling house.

Banker (n.) A vessel employed in the cod fishery on the banks of Newfoundland.

Banker (n.) A ditcher; a drain digger.

Banker (n.) The stone bench on which masons cut or square their work.

Bankeress (n.) A female banker.

Banking (n.) The business of a bank or of a banker.

Bank note () A promissory note issued by a bank or banking company, payable to bearer on demand.

Bank note () Formerly, a promissory note made by a banker, or banking company, payable to a specified person at a fixed date; a bank bill. See Bank bill, 2.

Bank note () A promissory note payable at a bank.

Bankrupt (n.) A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other acts tending to defraud his creditors.

Bankrupt (n.) A trader who becomes unable to pay his debts; an insolvent trader; popularly, any person who is unable to pay his debts; an insolvent person.

Bankrupt (n.) A person who, in accordance with the terms of a law relating to bankruptcy, has been judicially declared to be unable to meet his liabilities.

Bankrupt (a.) Being a bankrupt or in a condition of bankruptcy; unable to pay, or legally discharged from paying, one's debts; as, a bankrupt merchant.

Bankrupt (a.) Depleted of money; not having the means of meeting pecuniary liabilities; as, a bankrupt treasury.

Bankrupt (a.) Relating to bankrupts and bankruptcy.

Bankrupt (a.) Destitute of, or wholly wanting (something once possessed, or something one should possess).

Bankrupted (imp. & p. p.) of Bankrupt

Bankrupting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bankrupt

Bankrupt (v. t.) To make bankrupt; to bring financial ruin upon; to impoverish.

Bankruptcies (pl. ) of Bankruptcy

Bankruptcy (n.) The state of being actually or legally bankrupt.

Bankruptcy (n.) The act or process of becoming a bankrupt.

Bankruptcy (n.) Complete loss; -- followed by of.

Bankside (n.) The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam.

Bank-sided (a.) Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall-sided.

Bank swallow () See under 1st Bank, n.

Banlieue (n.) The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits, of a town or city.

Banner (n.) A kind of flag attached to a spear or pike by a crosspiece, and used by a chief as his standard in battle.

Banner (n.) A large piece of silk or other cloth, with a device or motto, extended on a crosspiece, and borne in a procession, or suspended in some conspicuous place.

Banner (n.) Any flag or standard; as, the star-spangled banner.

Bannered (a.) Furnished with, or bearing, banners.

Banneret (n.) Originally, a knight who led his vassals into the field under his own banner; -- commonly used as a title of rank.

Banneret (n.) A title of rank, conferred for heroic deeds, and hence, an order of knighthood; also, the person bearing such title or rank.

Banneret (n.) A civil officer in some Swiss cantons.

Banneret (n.) A small banner.

Bannerol (n.) A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral procession and set over the tomb. See Banderole.

Bannition (n.) The act of expulsion.

Bannock (n.) A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and roundish, commonly made of oatmeal or barley meal and baked on an iron plate, or griddle; -- used in Scotland and the northern counties of England.

Banns (n. pl.) Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or other place prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if he knows of just cause why the marriage should not take place.

Banquet (n.) A feast; a sumptuous entertainment of eating and drinking; often, a complimentary or ceremonious feast, followed by speeches.

Banquet (n.) A dessert; a course of sweetmeats; a sweetmeat or sweetmeats.

Banqueted (imp. & p. p.) of Banquet

Banqueting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Banquet

Banquet (v. t.) To treat with a banquet or sumptuous entertainment of food; to feast.

Banquet (v. i.) To regale one's self with good eating and drinking; to feast.

Banquet (v. i.) To partake of a dessert after a feast.

Banquetter (n.) One who banquets; one who feasts or makes feasts.

Banquette (n.) A raised way or foot bank, running along the inside of a parapet, on which musketeers stand to fire upon the enemy.

Banquette (n.) A narrow window seat; a raised shelf at the back or the top of a buffet or dresser.

Banshee (n.) Alt. of Banshie

Banshie (n.) A supernatural being supposed by the Irish and Scotch peasantry to warn a family of the speedy death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a mournful voice under the windows of the house.

Banstickle (n.) A small fish, the three-spined stickleback.

Bantam (n.) A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably brought from Bantam, a district of Java.

Bantam work () Carved and painted work in imitation of Japan ware.

Banteng (n.) The wild ox of Java (Bibos Banteng).

Bantered (imp. & p. p.) of Banter

Bantering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Banter

Banter (v. t.) To address playful good-natured ridicule to, -- the person addressed, or something pertaining to him, being the subject of the jesting; to rally; as, he bantered me about my credulity.

Banter (v. t.) To jest about; to ridicule in speaking of, as some trait, habit, characteristic, and the like.

Banter (v. t.) To delude or trick, -- esp. by way of jest.

Banter (v. t.) To challenge or defy to a match.

Banter (n.) The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good-humored raillery; pleasantry.

Banterer (n.) One who banters or rallies.

Bantingism (n.) A method of reducing corpulence by avoiding food containing much farinaceous, saccharine, or oily matter; -- so called from William Banting of London.

Bantling (n.) A young or small child; an infant. [Slightly contemptuous or depreciatory.]

Banxring (n.) An East Indian insectivorous mammal of the genus Tupaia.

Banyan (n.) A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called the Indian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground, which take root and become additional trunks, until it may be the tree covers some acres of ground and is able to shelter thousands of men.

Baobab (n.) A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalized in India. See Adansonia.

Baphomet (n.) An idol or symbolical figure which the Templars were accused of using in their mysterious rites.

Baptism (v. i.) The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, as a sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into the visible church of Christ. This is performed by immersion, sprinkling, or pouring.

Baptismal (a.) Pertaining to baptism; as, baptismal vows.

Baptismally (adv.) In a baptismal manner.

Baptist (n.) One who administers baptism; -- specifically applied to John, the forerunner of Christ.

Baptist (n.) One of a denomination of Christians who deny the validity of infant baptism and of sprinkling, and maintain that baptism should be administered to believers alone, and should be by immersion. See Anabaptist.

Baptisteries (pl. ) of Baptistry

-tries (pl. ) of Baptistry

Baptistery (n.) Alt. of Baptistry

Baptistry (n.) In early times, a separate building, usually polygonal, used for baptismal services. Small churches were often changed into baptisteries when larger churches were built near.

Baptistry (n.) A part of a church containing a font and used for baptismal services.

Baptistic (a.) Of or for baptism; baptismal.

Baptistical (a.) Baptistic.

Baptizable (a.) Capable of being baptized; fit to be baptized.

Baptization (n.) Baptism.

Baptized (imp. & p. p.) of Baptize

Baptizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baptize

Baptize (v. t.) To administer the sacrament of baptism to.

Baptize (v. t.) To christen ( because a name is given to infants at their baptism); to give a name to; to name.

Baptize (v. t.) To sanctify; to consecrate.

Baptizement (n.) The act of baptizing.

Baptizer (n.) One who baptizes.

Bar (n.) A piece of wood, metal, or other material, long in proportion to its breadth or thickness, used as a lever and for various other purposes, but especially for a hindrance, obstruction, or fastening; as, the bars of a fence or gate; the bar of a door.

Bar (n.) An indefinite quantity of some substance, so shaped as to be long in proportion to its breadth and thickness; as, a bar of gold or of lead; a bar of soap.

Bar (n.) Anything which obstructs, hinders, or prevents; an obstruction; a barrier.

Bar (n.) A bank of sand, gravel, or other matter, esp. at the mouth of a river or harbor, obstructing navigation.

Bar (n.) Any railing that divides a room, or office, or hall of assembly, in order to reserve a space for those having special privileges; as, the bar of the House of Commons.

Bar (n.) The railing that incloses the place which counsel occupy in courts of justice. Hence, the phrase at the bar of the court signifies in open court.

Bar (n.) The place in court where prisoners are stationed for arraignment, trial, or sentence.

Bar (n.) The whole body of lawyers licensed in a court or district; the legal profession.

Bar (n.) A special plea constituting a sufficient answer to plaintiff's action.

Bar (n.) Any tribunal; as, the bar of public opinion; the bar of God.

Bar (n.) A barrier or counter, over which liquors and food are passed to customers; hence, the portion of the room behind the counter where liquors for sale are kept.

Bar (n.) An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifth part of the field.

Bar (n.) A broad shaft, or band, or stripe; as, a bar of light; a bar of color.

Bar (n.) A vertical line across the staff. Bars divide the staff into spaces which represent measures, and are themselves called measures.

Bar (n.) The space between the tusks and grinders in the upper jaw of a horse, in which the bit is placed.

Bar (n.) The part of the crust of a horse's hoof which is bent inwards towards the frog at the heel on each side, and extends into the center of the sole.

Bar (n.) A drilling or tamping rod.

Bar (n.) A vein or dike crossing a lode.

Bar (n.) A gatehouse of a castle or fortified town.

Bar (n.) A slender strip of wood which divides and supports the glass of a window; a sash bar.

Barred (imp. & p. p.) of Bar

Barring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bar

Bar (n.) To fasten with a bar; as, to bar a door or gate.

Bar (n.) To restrict or confine, as if by a bar; to hinder; to obstruct; to prevent; to prohibit; as, to bar the entrance of evil; distance bars our intercourse; the statute bars my right; the right is barred by time; a release bars the plaintiff's recovery; -- sometimes with up.

Bar (n.) To except; to exclude by exception.

Bar (n.) To cross with one or more stripes or lines.

Barb (n.) Beard, or that which resembles it, or grows in the place of it.

Barb (n.) A muffler, worn by nuns and mourners.

Barb (n.) Paps, or little projections, of the mucous membrane, which mark the opening of the submaxillary glands under the tongue in horses and cattle. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are inflamed and swollen.

Barb (n.) The point that stands backward in an arrow, fishhook, etc., to prevent it from being easily extracted. Hence: Anything which stands out with a sharp point obliquely or crosswise to something else.

Barb (n.) A bit for a horse.

Barb (n.) One of the side branches of a feather, which collectively constitute the vane. See Feather.

Barb (n.) A southern name for the kingfishes of the eastern and southeastern coasts of the United States; -- also improperly called whiting.

Barb (n.) A hair or bristle ending in a double hook.

Barbed (imp. & p. p.) of Barb

Barbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barb

Barb (v. t.) To shave or dress the beard of.

Barb (v. t.) To clip; to mow.

Barb (v. t.) To furnish with barbs, or with that which will hold or hurt like barbs, as an arrow, fishhook, spear, etc.

Barb (n.) The Barbary horse, a superior breed introduced from Barbary into Spain by the Moors.

Barb (n.) A blackish or dun variety of the pigeon, originally brought from Barbary.

Barb (n.) Armor for a horse. Same as 2d Bard, n., 1.

Barbacan (n.) See Barbican.

Barbacanage (n.) See Barbicanage.

Barbadian (a.) Of or pertaining to Barbados.

Barbadian (n.) A native of Barbados.

Barbados (n.) Alt. of Barbadoes

Barbadoes (n.) A West Indian island, giving its name to a disease, to a cherry, etc.

Barbara (n.) The first word in certain mnemonic lines which represent the various forms of the syllogism. It indicates a syllogism whose three propositions are universal affirmatives.

Barbaresque (a.) Barbaric in form or style; as, barbaresque architecture.

Barbarian (n.) A foreigner.

Barbarian (n.) A man in a rule, savage, or uncivilized state.

Barbarian (n.) A person destitute of culture.

Barbarian (n.) A cruel, savage, brutal man; one destitute of pity or humanity.

Barbarian (a.) Of, or pertaining to, or resembling, barbarians; rude; uncivilized; barbarous; as, barbarian governments or nations.

Barbaic (a.) Of, or from, barbarian nations; foreign; -- often with reference to barbarous nations of east.

Barbaic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or resembling, an uncivilized person or people; barbarous; barbarian; destitute of refinement.

Barbarism (n.) An uncivilized state or condition; rudeness of manners; ignorance of arts, learning, and literature; barbarousness.

Barbarism (n.) A barbarous, cruel, or brutal action; an outrage.

Barbarism (n.) An offense against purity of style or language; any form of speech contrary to the pure idioms of a particular language. See Solecism.

Barbarities (pl. ) of Barbarity

Barbarity (n.) The state or manner of a barbarian; lack of civilization.

Barbarity (n.) Cruelty; ferociousness; inhumanity.

Barbarity (n.) A barbarous or cruel act.

Barbarity (n.) Barbarism; impurity of speech.

Barbarized (imp. & p. p.) of Barbarize

Barbarizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barbarize

Barbarize (v. i.) To become barbarous.

Barbarize (v. i.) To adopt a foreign or barbarous mode of speech.

Barbarize (v. t.) To make barbarous.

Barbarous (a.) Being in the state of a barbarian; uncivilized; rude; peopled with barbarians; as, a barbarous people; a barbarous country.

Barbarous (a.) Foreign; adapted to a barbaric taste.

Barbarous (a.) Cruel; ferocious; inhuman; merciless.

Barbarous (a.) Contrary to the pure idioms of a language.

Barbarously (adv.) In a barbarous manner.

Barbarousness (n.) The quality or state of being barbarous; barbarity; barbarism.

Barbary (n.) The countries on the north coast of Africa from Egypt to the Atlantic. Hence: A Barbary horse; a barb. [Obs.] Also, a kind of pigeon.

Barbastel (n.) A European bat (Barbastellus communis), with hairy lips.

Barbate (a.) Bearded; beset with long and weak hairs.

Barbated (a.) Having barbed points.

Barbecue (n.) A hog, ox, or other large animal roasted or broiled whole for a feast.

Barbecue (n.) A social entertainment, where many people assemble, usually in the open air, at which one or more large animals are roasted or broiled whole.

Barbecue (n.) A floor, on which coffee beans are sun-dried.

Barbecued (imp. & p. p.) of Barbecue

Barbecuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barbecue

Barbecue (v. t.) To dry or cure by exposure on a frame or gridiron.

Barbecue (v. t.) To roast or broil whole, as an ox or hog.

Barbed (a.) Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse. See Barded ( which is the proper form.)

Barbed (a.) Furnished with a barb or barbs; as, a barbed arrow; barbed wire.

Barbel (n.) A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.

Barbel (n.) A large fresh-water fish ( Barbus vulgaris) found in many European rivers. Its upper jaw is furnished with four barbels.

Barbel (n.) Barbs or paps under the tongued of horses and cattle. See 1st Barb, 3.

Barbellate (a.) Having short, stiff hairs, often barbed at the point.

Barbellulate (a.) Barbellate with diminutive hairs or barbs.

Barber (n.) One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and to cut and dress the hair of his patrons.

Barbered (imp. & p. p.) of Barber

Barbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barber

Barber (v. t.) To shave and dress the beard or hair of.

Barber fish () See Surgeon fish.

Barbermonger (n.) A fop.

Barberry (n.) A shrub of the genus Berberis, common along roadsides and in neglected fields. B. vulgaris is the species best known; its oblong red berries are made into a preserve or sauce, and have been deemed efficacious in fluxes and fevers. The bark dyes a fine yellow, esp. the bark of the root.

Barbet (n.) A variety of small dog, having long curly hair.

Barbet (n.) A bird of the family Bucconidae, allied to the Cuckoos, having a large, conical beak swollen at the base, and bearded with five bunches of stiff bristles; the puff bird. It inhabits tropical America and Africa.

Barbet (n.) A larva that feeds on aphides.

Barbette (n.) A mound of earth or a platform in a fortification, on which guns are mounted to fire over the parapet.

Barbican (n.) Alt. of Barbacan

Barbacan (n.) A tower or advanced work defending the entrance to a castle or city, as at a gate or bridge. It was often large and strong, having a ditch and drawbridge of its own.

Barbacan (n.) An opening in the wall of a fortress, through which missiles were discharged upon an enemy.

Barbicanage (n.) Alt. of Barbacanage

Barbacanage (n.) Money paid for the support of a barbican.

Barbicel (n.) One of the small hooklike processes on the barbules of feathers.

Barbiers (n.) A variety of paralysis, peculiar to India and the Malabar coast; -- considered by many to be the same as beriberi in chronic form.

Barbigerous (a.) Having a beard; bearded; hairy.

Barbiton (n.) An ancient Greek instrument resembling a lyre.

Barbituric acid () A white, crystalline substance, CH2(CO.NH)2.CO, derived from alloxantin, also from malonic acid and urea, and regarded as a substituted urea.

Barble (n.) See Barbel.

Barbotine (n.) A paste of clay used in decorating coarse pottery in relief.

Barbre (a.) Barbarian.

Barbule (n.) A very minute barb or beard.

Barbule (n.) One of the processes along the edges of the barbs of a feather, by which adjacent barbs interlock. See Feather.

Barcarolle (n.) A popular song or melody sung by Venetian gondoliers.

Barcarolle (n.) A piece of music composed in imitation of such a song.

Barcon (n.) A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean.

Bard (n.) A professional poet and singer, as among the ancient Celts, whose occupation was to compose and sing verses in honor of the heroic achievements of princes and brave men.

Bard (n.) Hence: A poet; as, the bard of Avon.

Bard (n.) Alt. of Barde

Barde (n.) A piece of defensive (or, sometimes, ornamental) armor for a horse's neck, breast, and flanks; a barb. [Often in the pl.]

Barde (pl.) Defensive armor formerly worn by a man at arms.

Barde (pl.) A thin slice of fat bacon used to cover any meat or game.

Bard (v. t.) To cover (meat or game) with a thin slice of fat bacon.

Barded (p.a.) Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse.

Barded (p.a.) Wearing rich caparisons.

Bardic (a.) Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry.

Bardish (a.) Pertaining to, or written by, a bard or bards.

Bardism (n.) The system of bards; the learning and maxims of bards.

Bardling (n.) An inferior bard.

Bardship (n.) The state of being a bard.

Bare (a.) Without clothes or covering; stripped of the usual covering; naked; as, his body is bare; the trees are bare.

Bare (a.) With head uncovered; bareheaded.

Bare (a.) Without anything to cover up or conceal one's thoughts or actions; open to view; exposed.

Bare (a.) Plain; simple; unadorned; without polish; bald; meager.

Bare (a.) Destitute; indigent; empty; unfurnished or scantily furnished; -- used with of (rarely with in) before the thing wanting or taken away; as, a room bare of furniture.

Bare (a.) Threadbare; much worn.

Bare (a.) Mere; alone; unaccompanied by anything else; as, a bare majority.

Bare (n.) Surface; body; substance.

Bare (n.) That part of a roofing slate, shingle, tile, or metal plate, which is exposed to the weather.

Bared (imp. & p. p.) of Bare

Baring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bare

Bare (a.) To strip off the covering of; to make bare; as, to bare the breast.

Bare () Bore; the old preterit of Bear, v.

Bareback (adv.) On the bare back of a horse, without using a saddle; as, to ride bareback.

Barebacked (a.) Having the back uncovered; as, a barebacked horse.

Barebone (n.) A very lean person; one whose bones show through the skin.

Barefaced (a.) With the face uncovered; not masked.

Barefaced (a.) Without concealment; undisguised. Hence: Shameless; audacious.

Barefacedly (adv.) Openly; shamelessly.

Barefacedness (n.) The quality of being barefaced; shamelessness; assurance; audaciousness.

Barefoot (a. & adv.) With the feet bare; without shoes or stockings.

Barefooted (a.) Having the feet bare.

Barege (n.) A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted, silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted.

Barehanded (n.) Having bare hands.

Bareheaded (a. & adv.) Alt. of Barehead

Barehead (a. & adv.) Having the head uncovered; as, a bareheaded girl.

Barelegged (a.) Having the legs bare.

Barely (adv.) Without covering; nakedly.

Barely (adv.) Without concealment or disguise.

Barely (adv.) Merely; only.

Barely (adv.) But just; without any excess; with nothing to spare ( of quantity, time, etc.); hence, scarcely; hardly; as, there was barely enough for all; he barely escaped.

Barenecked (a.) Having the neck bare.

Bareness (n.) The state of being bare.

Baresark (n.) A Berserker, or Norse warrior who fought without armor, or shirt of mail. Hence, adverbially: Without shirt of mail or armor.

Barfish (n.) Same as Calico bass.

Barful (a.) Full of obstructions.

Bargain (n.) An agreement between parties concerning the sale of property; or a contract by which one party binds himself to transfer the right to some property for a consideration, and the other party binds himself to receive the property and pay the consideration.

Bargain (n.) An agreement or stipulation; mutual pledge.

Bargain (n.) A purchase; also ( when not qualified), a gainful transaction; an advantageous purchase; as, to buy a thing at a bargain.

Bargain (n.) The thing stipulated or purchased; also, anything bought cheap.

Bargain (n.) To make a bargain; to make a contract for the exchange of property or services; -- followed by with and for; as, to bargain with a farmer for a cow.

Bargained (imp. & p. p.) of Bargain

Bargaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bargain

Bargain (v. t.) To transfer for a consideration; to barter; to trade; as, to bargain one horse for another.

Bargainee (v. i.) The party to a contract who receives, or agrees to receive, the property sold.

Bargainer (n.) One who makes a bargain; -- sometimes in the sense of bargainor.

Bargainor (n.) One who makes a bargain, or contracts with another; esp., one who sells, or contracts to sell, property to another.

Barge (n.) A pleasure boat; a vessel or boat of state, elegantly furnished and decorated.

Barge (n.) A large, roomy boat for the conveyance of passengers or goods; as, a ship's barge; a charcoal barge.

Barge (n.) A large boat used by flag officers.

Barge (n.) A double-decked passenger or freight vessel, towed by a steamboat.

Barge (n.) A large omnibus used for excursions.

Bargeboard (n.) A vergeboard.

Bargecourse (n.) A part of the tiling which projects beyond the principal rafters, in buildings where there is a gable.

Bargee (n.) A bargeman.

Bargeman (n.) The man who manages a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.

Bargemastter (n.) The proprietor or manager of a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.

Barger (n.) The manager of a barge.

Barghest (n.) A goblin, in the shape of a large dog, portending misfortune.

Baria (n.) Baryta.

Baric (a.) Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide.

Baric (a.) Of or pertaining to weight, esp. to the weight or pressure of the atmosphere as measured by the barometer.

Barilla (n.) A name given to several species of Salsola from which soda is made, by burning the barilla in heaps and lixiviating the ashes.

Barilla (n.) The alkali produced from the plant, being an impure carbonate of soda, used for making soap, glass, etc., and for bleaching purposes.

Barilla (n.) Impure soda obtained from the ashes of any seashore plant, or kelp.

Barillet (n.) A little cask, or something resembling one.

Bar iron () See under Iron.

Barite (n.) Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent, colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular), also in granular form, and in compact massive forms resembling marble. It has a high specific gravity, and hence is often called heavy spar. It is a common mineral in metallic veins.

Baritone (a. & n.) See Barytone.

Barium (n.) One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; a metal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very high temperature. It is difficult to obtain the pure metal, from the facility with which it becomes oxidized in the air. Atomic weight, 137. Symbol, Ba. Its oxide called baryta.

Bard (n.) The exterior covering of the trunk and branches of a tree; the rind.

Bard (n.) Specifically, Peruvian bark.

Barked (imp. & p. p.) of Bark

Barking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bark

Bark (v. t.) To strip the bark from; to peel.

Bark (v. t.) To abrade or rub off any outer covering from; as to bark one's heel.

Bark (v. t.) To girdle. See Girdle, v. t., 3.

Bark (v. t.) To cover or inclose with bark, or as with bark; as, to bark the roof of a hut.

Bark (v. i.) To make a short, loud, explosive noise with the vocal organs; -- said of some animals, but especially of dogs.

Bark (v. i.) To make a clamor; to make importunate outcries.

Bark (n.) The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog; a similar sound made by some other animals.

Bark (n.) Alt. of Barque

Barque (n.) Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack, etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge. Now applied poetically to a sailing vessel or boat of any kind.

Barque (n.) A three-masted vessel, having her foremast and mainmast square-rigged, and her mizzenmast schooner-rigged.

Barkantine (n.) Same as Barkentine.

Bark beetle () A small beetle of many species (family Scolytidae), which in the larval state bores under or in the bark of trees, often doing great damage.

Barkbound (a.) Prevented from growing, by having the bark too firm or close.

Barkeeper (n.) One who keeps or tends a bar for the sale of liquors.

Barken (a.) Made of bark.

Barkentine (n.) A threemasted vessel, having the foremast square-rigged, and the others schooner-rigged. [Spelled also barquentine, barkantine, etc.] See Illust. in Append.

Barker (n.) An animal that barks; hence, any one who clamors unreasonably.

Barker (n.) One who stands at the doors of shops to urg/ passers by to make purchases.

Barker (n.) A pistol.

Barker (n.) The spotted redshank.

Barker (n.) One who strips trees of their bark.

Barker's mill () A machine, invented in the 17th century, worked by a form of reaction wheel. The water flows into a vertical tube and gushes from apertures in hollow horizontal arms, causing the machine to revolve on its axis.

Barkery (n.) A tanhouse.

Barking irons () Instruments used in taking off the bark of trees.

Barking irons () A pair of pistols.

Barkless (a.) Destitute of bark.

Bark louse () An insect of the family Coccidae, which infests the bark of trees and vines.

Barky (a.) Covered with, or containing, bark.

Barley (n.) A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, used for food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, and whisky.

Barleybrake (n.) Alt. of Barleybreak

Barleybreak (n.) An ancient rural game, commonly played round stacks of barley, or other grain, in which some of the party attempt to catch others who run from a goal.

Barley-bree (n.) Liquor made from barley; strong ale.

Barleycorn (n.) A grain or corn of barley.

Barleycorn (n.) Formerly , a measure of length, equal to the average length of a grain of barley; the third part of an inch.

Barm (n.) Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting, and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast.

Barm (n.) The lap or bosom.

Barmaid (n.) A girl or woman who attends the customers of a bar, as in a tavern or beershop.

Barmaster (n.) Formerly, a local judge among miners; now, an officer of the barmote.

Barmcloth (n.) Apron.

Barmecidal (a.) Unreal; illusory.

Barmecide (n.) One who proffers some illusory advantage or benefit. Also used as an adj.: Barmecidal.

Barmote (n.) A court held in Derbyshire, in England, for deciding controversies between miners.

Balmy (a.) Full of barm or froth; in a ferment.

Barn (n.) A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, and other productions of a farm. In the United States a part of the barn is often used for stables.

Barn (v. t.) To lay up in a barn.

Barn (n.) A child. [Obs.] See Bairn.

Barnabite (n.) A member of a religious order, named from St. Barnabas.

Barnacle (n.) Any cirriped crustacean adhering to rocks, floating timber, ships, etc., esp. (a) the sessile species (genus Balanus and allies), and (b) the stalked or goose barnacles (genus Lepas and allies). See Cirripedia, and Goose barnacle.

Barnacle (n.) A bernicle goose.

Barnacle (n.) An instrument for pinching a horse's nose, and thus restraining him.

Barnacle (sing.) Spectacles; -- so called from their resemblance to the barnacles used by farriers.

Barnyard (n.) A yard belonging to a barn.

Barocco (a.) See Baroque.

Barograph (n.) An instrument for recording automatically the variations of atmospheric pressure.

Baroko (n.) A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is a universal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative.

Barology (n.) The science of weight or gravity.

Baromacrometer (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the weight and length of a newborn infant.

Barometer (n.) An instrument for determining the weight or pressure of the atmosphere, and hence for judging of the probable changes of weather, or for ascertaining the height of any ascent.

Barometric (a.) Alt. of Barometrical

Barometrical (a.) Pertaining to the barometer; made or indicated by a barometer; as, barometric changes; barometrical observations.

Barometrically (adv.) By means of a barometer, or according to barometric observations.

Barometrograph (n.) A form of barometer so constructed as to inscribe of itself upon paper a record of the variations of atmospheric pressure.

Barometry (n.) The art or process of making barometrical measurements.

Barometz (n.) The woolly-skinned rhizoma or rootstock of a fern (Dicksonia barometz), which, when specially prepared and inverted, somewhat resembles a lamb; -- called also Scythian lamb.

Baron (n.) A title or degree of nobility; originally, the possessor of a fief, who had feudal tenants under him; in modern times, in France and Germany, a nobleman next in rank below a count; in England, a nobleman of the lowest grade in the House of Lords, being next below a viscount.

Baron (n.) A husband; as, baron and feme, husband and wife.

Baronage (n.) The whole body of barons or peers.

Baronage (n.) The dignity or rank of a baron.

Baronage (n.) The land which gives title to a baron.

Baroness (n.) A baron's wife; also, a lady who holds the baronial title in her own right; as, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.

Baronet (n.) A dignity or degree of honor next below a baron and above a knight, having precedency of all orders of knights except those of the Garter. It is the lowest degree of honor that is hereditary. The baronets are commoners.

Baronetage (n.) State or rank of a baronet.

Baronetage (n.) The collective body of baronets.

Baronetcy (n.) The rank or patent of a baronet.

Baronial (a.) Pertaining to a baron or a barony.

Baronies (pl. ) of Barony

Barony (n.) The fee or domain of a baron; the lordship, dignity, or rank of a baron.

Barony (n.) In Ireland, a territorial division, corresponding nearly to the English hundred, and supposed to have been originally the district of a native chief. There are 252 of these baronies. In Scotland, an extensive freehold. It may be held by a commoner.

Baroque (a.) In bad taste; grotesque; odd.

Baroscope (n.) Any instrument showing the changes in the weight of the atmosphere; also, less appropriately, any instrument that indicates -or foreshadows changes of the weather, as a deep vial of liquid holding in suspension some substance which rises and falls with atmospheric changes.

Baroscopic (a.) Alt. of Baroscopical

Baroscopical (a.) Pertaining to, or determined by, the baroscope.

Barouche (n.) A four-wheeled carriage, with a falling top, a seat on the outside for the driver, and two double seats on the inside arranged so that the sitters on the front seat face those on the back seat.

Barouchet (n.) A kind of light barouche.

Barpost (n.) A post sunk in the ground to receive the bars closing a passage into a field.

Barque (n.) Same as 3d Bark, n.

Barracan (n.) A thick, strong stuff, somewhat like camlet; -- still used for outer garments in the Levant.

Barrack (n.) A building for soldiers, especially when in garrison. Commonly in the pl., originally meaning temporary huts, but now usually applied to a permanent structure or set of buildings.

Barrack (n.) A movable roof sliding on four posts, to cover hay, straw, etc.

Barrack (v. t.) To supply with barracks; to establish in barracks; as, to barrack troops.

Barrack (v. i.) To live or lodge in barracks.

Barraclade (n.) A home-made woolen blanket without nap.

Barracoon (n.) A slave warehouse, or an inclosure where slaves are quartered temporarily.

Barracuda (n.) Alt. of Barracouata

Barracouata (n.) A voracious pikelike, marine fish, of the genus Sphyraena, sometimes used as food.

Barracouata (n.) A large edible fresh-water fish of Australia and New Zealand (Thyrsites atun).

Barrage (n.) An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or water course to increase the depth of water; as, the barrages of the Nile.

Barranca (n.) A ravine caused by heavy rains or a watercourse.

Barras (n.) A resin, called also galipot.

Barrator (v. i.) One guilty of barratry.

Barratrous (/) Tainter with, or constituting, barratry.

Barratry (n.) The practice of exciting and encouraging lawsuits and quarrels.

Barratry (n.) A fraudulent breach of duty or willful act of known illegality on the part of a master of a ship, in his character of master, or of the mariners, to the injury of the owner of the ship or cargo, and without his consent. It includes every breach of trust committed with dishonest purpose, as by running away with the ship, sinking or deserting her, etc., or by embezzling the cargo.

Barratry (n.) The crime of a judge who is influenced by bribery in pronouncing judgment.

Barred owl () A large American owl (Syrnium nebulosum); -- so called from the transverse bars of a dark brown color on the breast.

Barrel (n.) A round vessel or cask, of greater length than breadth, and bulging in the middle, made of staves bound with hoops, and having flat ends or heads.

Barrel (n.) The quantity which constitutes a full barrel. This varies for different articles and also in different places for the same article, being regulated by custom or by law. A barrel of wine is 31/ gallons; a barrel of flour is 196 pounds.

Barrel (n.) A solid drum, or a hollow cylinder or case; as, the barrel of a windlass; the barrel of a watch, within which the spring is coiled.

Barrel (n.) A metallic tube, as of a gun, from which a projectile is discharged.

Barrel (n.) A jar.

Barrel (n.) The hollow basal part of a feather.

Barreled (imp. & p. p.) of Barrel

Barrelled () of Barrel

Barreling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barrel

Barrelling () of Barrel

Barrel (v. t.) To put or to pack in a barrel or barrels.

Barreled (a.) Alt. of Barrelled

Barrelled (a.) Having a barrel; -- used in composition; as, a double-barreled gun.

Barren (a.) Incapable of producing offspring; producing no young; sterile; -- said of women and female animals.

Barren (a.) Not producing vegetation, or useful vegetation; /rile.

Barren (a.) Unproductive; fruitless; unprofitable; empty.

Barren (a.) Mentally dull; stupid.

Barren (n.) A tract of barren land.

Barren (n.) Elevated lands or plains on which grow small trees, but not timber; as, pine barrens; oak barrens. They are not necessarily sterile, and are often fertile.

Barrenly (adv.) Unfruitfully; unproductively.

Barrenness (n.) The condition of being barren; sterility; unproductiveness.

Barrenwort (n.) An herbaceous plant of the Barberry family (Epimedium alpinum), having leaves that are bitter and said to be sudorific.

Barret (n.) A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barret cap. Also, the flat cap worn by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics.

Barricade (n.) A fortification, made in haste, of trees, earth, palisades, wagons, or anything that will obstruct the progress or attack of an enemy. It is usually an obstruction formed in streets to block an enemy's access.

Barricade (n.) Any bar, obstruction, or means of defense.

Barricaded (imp. & p. p.) of Barricade

Barricading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barricade

Barricade (n.) To fortify or close with a barricade or with barricades; to stop up, as a passage; to obstruct; as, the workmen barricaded the streets of Paris.

Barricader (n.) One who constructs barricades.

Barricado (n. & v. t.) See Barricade.

Barrier (n.) A carpentry obstruction, stockade, or other obstacle made in a passage in order to stop an enemy.

Barrier (n.) A fortress or fortified town, on the frontier of a country, commanding an avenue of approach.

Barrier (n.) A fence or railing to mark the limits of a place, or to keep back a crowd.

Barrier (n.) An any obstruction; anything which hinders approach or attack.

Barrier (n.) Any limit or boundary; a line of separation.

Barrigudo (n.) A large, dark-colored, South American monkey, of the genus Lagothrix, having a long prehensile tail.

Barringout (n.) The act of closing the doors of a schoolroom against a schoolmaster; -- a boyish mode of rebellion in schools.

Barrister (n.) Counselor at law; a counsel admitted to plead at the bar, and undertake the public trial of causes, as distinguished from an attorney or solicitor. See Attorney.

Barroom (n.) A room containing a bar or counter at which liquors are sold.

Barrow (n.) A support having handles, and with or without a wheel, on which heavy or bulky things can be transported by hand. See Handbarrow, and Wheelbarrow.

Barrow (n.) A wicker case, in which salt is put to drain.

Barrow (n.) A hog, esp. a male hog castrated.

Barrow (n.) A large mound of earth or stones over the remains of the dead; a tumulus.

Barrow (n.) A heap of rubbish, attle, etc.

Barrowist (n.) A follower of Henry Barrowe, one of the founders of Independency or Congregationalism in England. Barrowe was executed for nonconformity in 1953.

Barrulet (n.) A diminutive of the bar, having one fourth its width.

Barruly (a.) Traversed by barrulets or small bars; -- said of the field.

Barry (a.) Divided into bars; -- said of the field.

Barse (n.) The common perch. See 1st Bass.

Bartender (n.) A barkeeper.

Bartered (imp. & p. p.) of Barter

Bartering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barter

Barter (v. i.) To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another, in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid for the commodities transferred; to truck.

Barter (v. t.) To trade or exchange in the way of barter; to exchange (frequently for an unworthy consideration); to traffic; to truck; -- sometimes followed by away; as, to barter away goods or honor.

Barter (n.) The act or practice of trafficking by exchange of commodities; an exchange of goods.

Barter (n.) The thing given in exchange.

Barterer (n.) One who barters.

Bartery (n.) Barter.

Barth (n.) A place of shelter for cattle.

Bartholomew tide () Time of the festival of St. Bartholomew, August 24th.

Bartizan (n.) A small, overhanging structure for lookout or defense, usually projecting at an angle of a building or near an entrance gateway.

Bartlett (n.) A Bartlett pear, a favorite kind of pear, which originated in England about 1770, and was called Williams' Bonchretien. It was brought to America, and distributed by Mr. Enoch Bartlett, of Dorchester, Massachusetts.

Barton (n.) The demesne lands of a manor; also, the manor itself.

Barton (n.) A farmyard.

Bartram (n.) See Bertram.

Barway (n.) A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take out of the posts.

Barwise (adv.) Horizontally.

Barwood (n.) A red wood of a leguminous tree (Baphia nitida), from Angola and the Gaboon in Africa. It is used as a dyewood, and also for ramrods, violin bows and turner's work.

Barycentric (a.) Of or pertaining to the center of gravity. See Barycentric calculus, under Calculus.

Baryphony (n.) Difficulty of speech.

Baryta (n.) An oxide of barium (or barytum); a heavy earth with a specific gravity above 4.

Barytes (n.) Barium sulphate, generally called heavy spar or barite. See Barite.

Barytic (a.) Of or pertaining to baryta.

Baryto-calcite (n.) A mineral of a white or gray color, occurring massive or crystallized. It is a compound of the carbonates of barium and calcium.

Barytone (a.) Alt. of Baritone

Baritone (a.) Grave and deep, as a kind of male voice.

Baritone (a.) Not marked with an accent on the last syllable, the grave accent being understood.

Barytone (n.) Alt. of Baritone

Baritone (n.) A male voice, the compass of which partakes of the common bass and the tenor, but which does not descend as low as the one, nor rise as high as the other.

Baritone (n.) A person having a voice of such range.

Baritone (n.) The viola di gamba, now entirely disused.

Baritone (n.) A word which has no accent marked on the last syllable, the grave accent being understood.

Barytum (n.) The metal barium. See Barium.

Basal (a.) Relating to, or forming, the base.

Basal-nerved (a.) Having the nerves radiating from the base; -- said of leaves.

Basalt (n.) A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinic feldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle-green particles of olivine frequently disseminated.

Basalt (n.) An imitation, in pottery, of natural basalt; a kind of black porcelain.

Basaltic (a.) Pertaining to basalt; formed of, or containing, basalt; as basaltic lava.

Basaltiform (a.) In the form of basalt; columnar.

Basaltoid (a.) Formed like basalt; basaltiform.

Basan (n.) Same as Basil, a sheepskin.

Basanite (n.) Lydian stone, or black jasper, a variety of siliceous or flinty slate, of a grayish or bluish black color. It is employed to test the purity of gold, the amount of alloy being indicated by the color left on the stone when rubbed by the metal.

Basbleu (n.) A bluestocking; a literary woman.

Bascinet (n.) A light helmet, at first open, but later made with a visor.

Bascule (n.) In mechanics an apparatus on the principle of the seesaw, in which one end rises as the other falls.

Base (a.) Of little, or less than the usual, height; of low growth; as, base shrubs.

Base (a.) Low in place or position.

Base (a.) Of humble birth; or low degree; lowly; mean.

Base (a.) Illegitimate by birth; bastard.

Base (a.) Of little comparative value, as metal inferior to gold and silver, the precious metals.

Base (a.) Alloyed with inferior metal; debased; as, base coin; base bullion.

Base (a.) Morally low. Hence: Low-minded; unworthy; without dignity of sentiment; ignoble; mean; illiberal; menial; as, a base fellow; base motives; base occupations.

Base (a.) Not classical or correct.

Base (a.) Deep or grave in sound; as, the base tone of a violin.

Base (a.) Not held by honorable service; as, a base estate, one held by services not honorable; held by villenage. Such a tenure is called base, or low, and the tenant, a base tenant.

Base (n.) The bottom of anything, considered as its support, or that on which something rests for support; the foundation; as, the base of a statue.

Base (n.) Fig.: The fundamental or essential part of a thing; the essential principle; a groundwork.

Base (n.) The lower part of a wall, pier, or column, when treated as a separate feature, usually in projection, or especially ornamented.

Base (n.) The lower part of a complete architectural design, as of a monument; also, the lower part of any elaborate piece of furniture or decoration.

Base (n.) That extremity of a leaf, fruit, etc., at which it is attached to its support.

Base (n.) The positive, or non-acid component of a salt; a substance which, combined with an acid, neutralizes the latter and forms a salt; -- applied also to the hydroxides of the positive elements or radicals, and to certain organic bodies resembling them in their property of forming salts with acids.

Base (n.) The chief ingredient in a compound.

Base (n.) A substance used as a mordant.

Base (n.) The exterior side of the polygon, or that imaginary line which connects the salient angles of two adjacent bastions.

Base (n.) The line or surface constituting that part of a figure on which it is supposed to stand.

Base (n.) The number from which a mathematical table is constructed; as, the base of a system of logarithms.

Base (n.) A low, or deep, sound. (Mus.) (a) The lowest part; the deepest male voice. (b) One who sings, or the instrument which plays, base.

Base (n.) A place or tract of country, protected by fortifications, or by natural advantages, from which the operations of an army proceed, forward movements are made, supplies are furnished, etc.

Base (n.) The smallest kind of cannon.

Base (n.) That part of an organ by which it is attached to another more central organ.

Base (n.) The basal plane of a crystal.

Base (n.) The ground mass of a rock, especially if not distinctly crystalline.

Base (n.) The lower part of the field. See Escutcheon.

Base (n.) The housing of a horse.

Base (n.) A kind of skirt ( often of velvet or brocade, but sometimes of mailed armor) which hung from the middle to about the knees, or lower.

Base (n.) The lower part of a robe or petticoat.

Base (n.) An apron.

Base (n.) The point or line from which a start is made; a starting place or a goal in various games.

Base (n.) A line in a survey which, being accurately determined in length and position, serves as the origin from which to compute the distances and positions of any points or objects connected with it by a system of triangles.

Base (n.) A rustic play; -- called also prisoner's base, prison base, or bars.

Base (n.) Any one of the four bounds which mark the circuit of the infield.

Based (imp. & p. p.) of Base

Basing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Base

Base (n.) To put on a base or basis; to lay the foundation of; to found, as an argument or conclusion; -- used with on or upon.

Base (a.) To abase; to let, or cast, down; to lower.

Base (a.) To reduce the value of; to debase.

Baseball (n.) A game of ball, so called from the bases or bounds ( four in number) which designate the circuit which each player must endeavor to make after striking the ball.

Baseball (n.) The ball used in this game.

Baseboard (n.) A board, or other woodwork, carried round the walls of a room and touching the floor, to form a base and protect the plastering; -- also called washboard (in England), mopboard, and scrubboard.

Baseborn (a.) Born out of wedlock.

Baseborn (a.) Born of low parentage.

Baseborn (a.) Vile; mean.

Base-burner (n.) A furnace or stove in which the fuel is contained in a hopper or chamber, and is fed to the fire as the lower stratum is consumed.

Base-court (n.) The secondary, inferior, or rear courtyard of a large house; the outer court of a castle.

Base-court (n.) An inferior court of law, not of record.

Based (a.) Having a base, or having as a base; supported; as, broad-based.

Based (n.) Wearing, or protected by, bases.

Basedow's disease () A disease characterized by enlargement of the thyroid gland, prominence of the eyeballs, and inordinate action of the heart; -- called also exophthalmic goiter.

Baselard (n.) A short sword or dagger, worn in the fifteenth century.

Baseless (a.) Without a base; having no foundation or support.

Basely (adv.) In a base manner; with despicable meanness; dishonorably; shamefully.

Basely (adv.) Illegitimately; in bastardy.

Basement (a.) The outer wall of the ground story of a building, or of a part of that story, when treated as a distinct substructure. ( See Base, n., 3 (a).) Hence: The rooms of a ground floor, collectively.

Baseness (n.) The quality or condition of being base; degradation; vileness.

Basenet (n.) See Bascinet.

Base viol () See Bass viol.

Bash (v. t. & i.) To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out of countenance.

Bashaw (n.) A Turkish title of honor, now written pasha. See Pasha.

Bashaw (n.) Fig.: A magnate or grandee.

Bashaw (n.) A very large siluroid fish (Leptops olivaris) of the Mississippi valley; -- also called goujon, mud cat, and yellow cat.

Bashful (a.) Abashed; daunted; dismayed.

Bashful (a.) Very modest, or modest excess; constitutionally disposed to shrink from public notice; indicating extreme or excessive modesty; shy; as, a bashful person, action, expression.

Bashfully (adv.) In a bashful manner.

Bashfulness (n.) The quality of being bashful.

Bashi-bazouk (n.) A soldier belonging to the irregular troops of the Turkish army.

Bashless (a.) Shameless; unblushing.

Bashyle (n.) See Basyle.

Basi- () A combining form, especially in anatomical and botanical words, to indicate the base or position at or near a base; forming a base; as, basibranchials, the most ventral of the cartilages or bones of the branchial arches; basicranial, situated at the base of the cranium; basifacial, basitemporal, etc.

Basic (a.) Relating to a base; performing the office of a base in a salt.

Basic (a.) Having the base in excess, or the amount of the base atomically greater than that of the acid, or exceeding in proportion that of the related neutral salt.

Basic (a.) Apparently alkaline, as certain normal salts which exhibit alkaline reactions with test paper.

Basic (a.) Said of crystalline rocks which contain a relatively low percentage of silica, as basalt.

Basicerite (n.) The second joint of the antennae of crustaceans.

Basicity (n.) The quality or state of being a base.

Basicity (n.) The power of an acid to unite with one or more atoms or equivalents of a base, as indicated by the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms contained in the acid.

Basidiospore (n.) A spore borne by a basidium.

Basidium (n.) A special oblong or pyriform cell, with slender branches, which bears the spores in that division of fungi called Basidiomycetes, of which the common mushroom is an example.

Basifier (n.) That which converts into a salifiable base.

Basifugal (n.) Tending or proceeding away from the base; as, a basifugal growth.

Basify (v. t.) To convert into a salifiable base.

Basigynium (n.) The pedicel on which the ovary of certain flowers, as the passion flower, is seated; a carpophore or thecaphore.

Basihyal (a.) Noting two small bones, forming the body of the inverted hyoid arch.

Basihyoid (n.) The central tongue bone.

Basil (n.) The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as a plane, is ground.

Basiled (imp. & p. p.) of Basil

Basiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Basil

Basil (v. t.) To grind or form the edge of to an angle.

Basil (n.) The name given to several aromatic herbs of the Mint family, but chiefly to the common or sweet basil (Ocymum basilicum), and the bush basil, or lesser basil (O. minimum), the leaves of which are used in cookery. The name is also given to several kinds of mountain mint (Pycnanthemum).

Basil (n.) The skin of a sheep tanned with bark.

Basilar (n.) Alt. of Basilary

Basilary (n.) Relating to, or situated at, the base.

Basilary (n.) Lower; inferior; applied to impulses or springs of action.

Basilic (n.) Basilica.

Basilic (a.) Alt. of Basilical

Basilical (a.) Royal; kingly; also, basilican.

Basilical (a.) Pertaining to certain parts, anciently supposed to have a specially important function in the animal economy, as the middle vein of the right arm.

Basilicas (pl. ) of Basilica

Basilic/ (pl. ) of Basilica

Basilica (n.) Originally, the place of a king; but afterward, an apartment provided in the houses of persons of importance, where assemblies were held for dispensing justice; and hence, any large hall used for this purpose.

Basilica (n.) A building used by the Romans as a place of public meeting, with court rooms, etc., attached.

Basilica (n.) A church building of the earlier centuries of Christianity, the plan of which was taken from the basilica of the Romans. The name is still applied to some churches by way of honorary distinction.

Basilica (n.) A digest of the laws of Justinian, translated from the original Latin into Greek, by order of Basil I., in the ninth century.

Basilican (a.) Of, relating to, or resembling, a basilica; basilical.

Basilicok (n.) The basilisk.

Basilicon (n.) An ointment composed of wax, pitch, resin, and olive oil, lard, or other fatty substance.

Basilisk (n.) A fabulous serpent, or dragon. The ancients alleged that its hissing would drive away all other serpents, and that its breath, and even its look, was fatal. See Cockatrice.

Basilisk (n.) A lizard of the genus Basiliscus, belonging to the family Iguanidae.

Basilisk (n.) A large piece of ordnance, so called from its supposed resemblance to the serpent of that name, or from its size.

Basin (n.) A hollow vessel or dish, to hold water for washing, and for various other uses.

Basin (n.) The quantity contained in a basin.

Basin (n.) A hollow vessel, of various forms and materials, used in the arts or manufactures, as that used by glass grinders for forming concave glasses, by hatters for molding a hat into shape, etc.

Basin (n.) A hollow place containing water, as a pond, a dock for ships, a little bay.

Basin (n.) A circular or oval valley, or depression of the surface of the ground, the lowest part of which is generally occupied by a lake, or traversed by a river.

Basin (n.) The entire tract of country drained by a river, or sloping towards a sea or lake.

Basin (n.) An isolated or circumscribed formation, particularly where the strata dip inward, on all sides, toward a center; -- especially applied to the coal formations, called coal basins or coal fields.

Basined (a.) Inclosed in a basin.

Basinet (n.) Same as Bascinet.

Basioccipital (a.) Of or pertaining to the bone in the base of the cranium, frequently forming a part of the occipital in the adult, but usually distinct in the young.

Basioccipital (n.) The basioccipital bone.

Basion (n.) The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of the skull.

Basipodite (n.) The basal joint of the legs of Crustacea.

Basipterygium (n.) A bar of cartilage at the base of the embryonic fins of some fishes. It develops into the metapterygium.

Basipterygoid (a. & n.) Applied to a protuberance of the base of the sphenoid bone.

Bases (pl. ) of Basis

Basis (n.) The foundation of anything; that on which a thing rests.

Basis (n.) The pedestal of a column, pillar, or statue.

Basis (n.) The ground work the first or fundamental principle; that which supports.

Basis (n.) The principal component part of a thing.

Basisolute (a.) Prolonged at the base, as certain leaves.

Basisphenoid (a.) Alt. of Basisphenoidal

Basisphenoidal (a.) Of or pertaining to that part of the base of the cranium between the basioccipital and the presphenoid, which usually ossifies separately in the embryo or in the young, and becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult.

Basisphenoid (n.) The basisphenoid bone.

Basked (imp. & p. p.) of Bask

Basking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bask

Bask (v. t.) To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat.

Bask (v. t.) To warm by continued exposure to heat; to warm with genial heat.

Basket (n.) A vessel made of osiers or other twigs, cane, rushes, splints, or other flexible material, interwoven.

Basket (n.) The contents of a basket; as much as a basket contains; as, a basket of peaches.

Basket (n.) The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital.

Basket (n.) The two back seats facing one another on the outside of a stagecoach.

Basket (v. t.) To put into a basket.

Basketfuls (pl. ) of Basketful

Basketful (n.) As much as a basket will contain.

Basketry (n.) The art of making baskets; also, baskets, taken collectively.

Basking shark () One of the largest species of sharks (Cetorhinus maximus), so called from its habit of basking in the sun; the liver shark, or bone shark. It inhabits the northern seas of Europe and America, and grows to a length of more than forty feet. It is a harmless species.

Basnet (n.) Same as Bascinet.

Basommatophora (n. pl.) A group of Pulmonifera having the eyes at the base of the tentacles, including the common pond snails.

Bason (n.) A basin.

Basque (a.) Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language.

Basque (n.) One of a race, of unknown origin, inhabiting a region on the Bay of Biscay in Spain and France.

Basque (n.) The language spoken by the Basque people.

Basque (n.) A part of a lady's dress, resembling a jacket with a short skirt; -- probably so called because this fashion of dress came from the Basques.

Basquish (a.) Pertaining to the country, people, or language of Biscay; Basque

Bas-relief (n.) Low relief; sculpture, the figures of which project less than half of their true proportions; -- called also bassrelief and basso-rilievo. See Alto-rilievo.

Bass (pl. ) of Bass

Basses (pl. ) of Bass

Bass (n.) An edible, spiny-finned fish, esp. of the genera Roccus, Labrax, and related genera. There are many species.

Bass (n.) The two American fresh-water species of black bass (genus Micropterus). See Black bass.

Bass (n.) Species of Serranus, the sea bass and rock bass. See Sea bass.

Bass (n.) The southern, red, or channel bass (Sciaena ocellata). See Redfish.

Bass (n.) The linden or lime tree, sometimes wrongly called whitewood; also, its bark, which is used for making mats. See Bast.

Bass (n.) A hassock or thick mat.

Bass (a.) A bass, or deep, sound or tone.

Bass (a.) The lowest part in a musical composition.

Bass (a.) One who sings, or the instrument which plays, bass.

Bass (a.) Deep or grave in tone.

Bass (v. t.) To sound in a deep tone.

Bassa (n.) Alt. of Bassaw

Bassaw (n.) See Bashaw.

Bass drum () The largest of the different kinds of drums, having two heads, and emitting a deep, grave sound. See Bass, a.

Basset (n.) A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have been invented at Venice.

Basset (a.) Inclined upward; as, the basset edge of strata.

Basset (n.) The edge of a geological stratum at the surface of the ground; the outcrop.

Basseted (imp. & p. p.) of Basset

Basseting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Basset

Basset (v. i.) To inclined upward so as to appear at the surface; to crop out; as, a vein of coal bassets.

Basset horn (a.) An instrument blown with a reed, and resembling a clarinet, but of much greater compass, embracing nearly four octaves.

Basset hound () A small kind of hound with a long body and short legs, used as an earth dog.

Basseting (n.) The upward direction of a vein in a mine; the emergence of a stratum at the surface.

Bassetto (n.) A tenor or small bass viol.

Bass horn () A modification of the bassoon, much deeper in tone.

Bassinet (n.) A wicker basket, with a covering or hood over one end, in which young children are placed as in a cradle.

Bassinet (n.) See Bascinet.

Basso (a.) The bass or lowest part; as, to sing basso.

Basso (a.) One who sings the lowest part.

Basso (a.) The double bass, or contrabasso.

Bassock (n.) A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.

Bassoon (n.) A wind instrument of the double reed kind, furnished with holes, which are stopped by the fingers, and by keys, as in flutes. It forms the natural bass to the oboe, clarinet, etc.

Bassoonist (n.) A performer on the bassoon.

Basso-rilievo (n.) Alt. of Basso-relievo

Basso-relievo (n.) Same as Bas-relief.

Bassorin (n.) A constituent part of a species of gum from Bassora, as also of gum tragacanth and some gum resins. It is one of the amyloses.

Bass-relief (n.) Some as Bas-relief.

Bass viol () A stringed instrument of the viol family, used for playing bass. See 3d Bass, n., and Violoncello.

Basswood (n.) The bass (Tilia) or its wood; especially, T. Americana. See Bass, the lime tree.

Bast (n.) The inner fibrous bark of various plants; esp. of the lime tree; hence, matting, cordage, etc., made therefrom.

Bast (n.) A thick mat or hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.

Basta (interj.) Enough; stop.

Bastard (n.) A natural child; a child begotten and born out of wedlock; an illegitimate child; one born of an illicit union.

Bastard (n.) An inferior quality of soft brown sugar, obtained from the sirups that / already had several boilings.

Bastard (n.) A large size of mold, in which sugar is drained.

Bastard (n.) A sweet Spanish wine like muscadel in flavor.

Bastard (n.) A writing paper of a particular size. See Paper.

Bastard (a.) Begotten and born out of lawful matrimony; illegitimate. See Bastard, n., note.

Bastard (n.) Lacking in genuineness; spurious; false; adulterate; -- applied to things which resemble those which are genuine, but are really not so.

Bastard (n.) Of an unusual make or proportion; as, a bastard musket; a bastard culverin.

Bastard (n.) Abbreviated, as the half title in a page preceding the full title page of a book.

Bastard (v. t.) To bastardize.

Bastardism (n.) The state of being a bastard; bastardy.

Bastardized (imp. & p. p.) of Bastardize

Bastardizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bastardize

Bastardize (v. t.) To make or prove to be a bastard; to stigmatize as a bastard; to declare or decide legally to be illegitimate.

Bastardize (v. t.) To beget out of wedlock.

Bastardly (a.) Bastardlike; baseborn; spurious; corrupt.

Bastardly (adv.) In the manner of a bastard; spuriously.

Bastardy (n.) The state of being a bastard; illegitimacy.

Bastardy (n.) The procreation of a bastard child.

Basted (imp. & p. p.) of Baste

Basting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baste

Baste (v. t.) To beat with a stick; to cudgel.

Baste (v. t.) To sprinkle flour and salt and drip butter or fat on, as on meat in roasting.

Baste (v. t.) To mark with tar, as sheep.

Baste (v. t.) To sew loosely, or with long stitches; -- usually, that the work may be held in position until sewed more firmly.

Bastile Bastille (n.) A tower or an elevated work, used for the defense, or in the siege, of a fortified place.

Bastile Bastille (n.) The Bastille, formerly a castle or fortress in Paris, used as a prison, especially for political offenders; hence, a rhetorical name for a prison.

Bastinade (n.) See Bastinado, n.

Bastinade (v. t.) To bastinado.

Bastinadoes (pl. ) of Bastinado

Bastinado (n.) A blow with a stick or cudgel.

Bastinado (n.) A sound beating with a stick or cudgel. Specifically: A form of punishment among the Turks, Chinese, and others, consisting in beating an offender on the soles of his feet.

Bastinadoes (imp. & p. p.) of Bastinado

Bastinadoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bastinado

Bastinado (v. t.) To beat with a stick or cudgel, especially on the soles of the feet.

Bastion (n.) A work projecting outward from the main inclosure of a fortification, consisting of two faces and two flanks, and so constructed that it is able to defend by a flanking fire the adjacent curtain, or wall which extends from one bastion to another. Two adjacent bastions are connected by the curtain, which joins the flank of one with the adjacent flank of the other. The distance between the flanks of a bastion is called the gorge. A lunette is a detached bastion. See Ravelin.

Bastioned (a.) Furnished with a bastion; having bastions.

Basto (n.) The ace of clubs in quadrille and omber.

Baston (n.) A staff or cudgel.

Baston (n.) See Baton.

Baston (n.) An officer bearing a painted staff, who formerly was in attendance upon the king's court to take into custody persons committed by the court.

Basyle (n.) A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, either elementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element.

Basylous (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, a basyle; electro-positive; basic; -- opposed to chlorous.

Bat (n.) A large stick; a club; specifically, a piece of wood with one end thicker or broader than the other, used in playing baseball, cricket, etc.

Bat (n.) Shale or bituminous shale.

Bat (n.) A sheet of cotton used for filling quilts or comfortables; batting.

Bat (n.) A part of a brick with one whole end.

Batted (imp. & p. p.) of Bat

Batting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bat

Bat (v. t.) To strike or hit with a bat or a pole; to cudgel; to beat.

Bat (v. i.) To use a bat, as in a game of baseball.

Bat (n.) One of the Cheiroptera, an order of flying mammals, in which the wings are formed by a membrane stretched between the elongated fingers, legs, and tail. The common bats are small and insectivorous. See Cheiroptera and Vampire.

Batable (a.) Disputable.

Batailled (a.) Embattled.

Batardeau (n.) A cofferdam.

Batardeau (n.) A wall built across the ditch of a fortification, with a sluice gate to regulate the height of water in the ditch on both sides of the wall.

Batatas (n.) Alt. of Batata

Batata (n.) An aboriginal American name for the sweet potato (Ipomaea batatas).

Batavian (a.) Of or pertaining to (a) the Batavi, an ancient Germanic tribe; or to (b) /atavia or Holland; as, a Batavian legion.

Batavian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Batavia or Holland.

Batch (v. t.) The quantity of bread baked at one time.

Batch (v. t.) A quantity of anything produced at one operation; a group or collection of persons or things of the same kind; as, a batch of letters; the next batch of business.

Bate (n.) Strife; contention.

Bated (imp. & p. p.) of Bate

Bating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bate

Bate (v. t.) To lessen by retrenching, deducting, or reducing; to abate; to beat down; to lower.

Bate (v. t.) To allow by way of abatement or deduction.

Bate (v. t.) To leave out; to except.

Bate (v. t.) To remove.

Bate (v. t.) To deprive of.

Bate (v. i.) To remit or retrench a part; -- with of.

Bate (v. i.) To waste away.

Bate (v. t.) To attack; to bait.

Bate () imp. of Bite.

Bate (v. i.) To flutter as a hawk; to bait.

Bate (n.) See 2d Bath.

Bate (n.) An alkaline solution consisting of the dung of certain animals; -- employed in the preparation of hides; grainer.

Bate (v. t.) To steep in bate, as hides, in the manufacture of leather.

Bateaux (pl. ) of Bateau

Bateau (n.) A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadian lakes and rivers.

Bated (a.) Reduced; lowered; restrained; as, to speak with bated breath.

Bateful (a.) Exciting contention; contentious.

Bateless (a.) Not to be abated.

Batement (n.) Abatement; diminution.

Batfish (n.) A name given to several species of fishes: (a) The Malthe vespertilio of the Atlantic coast. (b) The flying gurnard of the Atlantic (Cephalacanthus spinarella). (c) The California batfish or sting ray (Myliobatis Californicus.)

Batfowler (n.) One who practices or finds sport in batfowling.

Batfowling (n.) A mode of catching birds at night, by holding a torch or other light, and beating the bush or perch where they roost. The birds, flying to the light, are caught with nets or otherwise.

Batful (v. i.) Rich; fertile.

Baths (pl. ) of Bath

Bath (n.) The act of exposing the body, or part of the body, for purposes of cleanliness, comfort, health, etc., to water, vapor, hot air, or the like; as, a cold or a hot bath; a medicated bath; a steam bath; a hip bath.

Bath (n.) Water or other liquid for bathing.

Bath (n.) A receptacle or place where persons may immerse or wash their bodies in water.

Bath (n.) A building containing an apartment or a series of apartments arranged for bathing.

Bath (n.) A medium, as heated sand, ashes, steam, hot air, through which heat is applied to a body.

Bath (n.) A solution in which plates or prints are immersed; also, the receptacle holding the solution.

Bath (n.) A Hebrew measure containing the tenth of a homer, or five gallons and three pints, as a measure for liquids; and two pecks and five quarts, as a dry measure.

Bath (n.) A city in the west of England, resorted to for its hot springs, which has given its name to various objects.

Bathed (imp. & p. p.) of Bathe

Bathing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bathe

Bathe (v. t.) To wash by immersion, as in a bath; to subject to a bath.

Bathe (v. t.) To lave; to wet.

Bathe (v. t.) To moisten or suffuse with a liquid.

Bathe (v. t.) To apply water or some liquid medicament to; as, to bathe the eye with warm water or with sea water; to bathe one's forehead with camphor.

Bathe (v. t.) To surround, or envelop, as water surrounds a person immersed.

Bathe (v. i.) To bathe one's self; to take a bath or baths.

Bathe (v. i.) To immerse or cover one's self, as in a bath.

Bathe (v. i.) To bask in the sun.

Bathe (n.) The immersion of the body in water; as to take one's usual bathe.

Bather (n.) One who bathes.

Bathetic (a.) Having the character of bathos.

Bathing (n.) Act of taking a bath or baths.

Bathmism (n.) See Vital force.

Bathometer (n.) An instrument for measuring depths, esp. one for taking soundings without a sounding line.

Bathorse (n.) A horse which carries an officer's baggage during a campaign.

Bathos (n.) A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing or speech; anticlimax.

Bathybius (n.) A name given by Prof. Huxley to a gelatinous substance found in mud dredged from the Atlantic and preserved in alcohol. He supposed that it was free living protoplasm, covering a large part of the ocean bed. It is now known that the substance is of chemical, not of organic, origin.

Bathymetric (a.) Alt. of Bathymetrical

Bathymetrical (a.) Pertaining to bathymetry; relating to the measurement of depths, especially of depths in the sea.

Bathymetry (n.) The art or science of sounding, or measuring depths in the sea.

Bating (prep.) With the exception of; excepting.

Batiste (n.) Originally, cambric or lawn of fine linen; now applied also to cloth of similar texture made of cotton.

Batlet (n.) A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called also batler, batling staff, batting staff.

Batman (n.) A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality; in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only a fourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds.

Batmen (pl. ) of Batman

Batman (n.) A man who has charge of a bathorse and his load.

Batoidei (n. pl.) The division of fishes which includes the rays and skates.

Baton (n.) A staff or truncheon, used for various purposes; as, the baton of a field marshal; the baton of a conductor in musical performances.

Baton (n.) An ordinary with its ends cut off, borne sinister as a mark of bastardy, and containing one fourth in breadth of the bend sinister; -- called also bastard bar. See Bend sinister.

Batoon (n.) See Baton, and Baston.

Bat printing () A mode of printing on glazed ware.

Batrachia (n. pl.) The order of amphibians which includes the frogs and toads; the Anura. Sometimes the word is used in a wider sense as equivalent to Amphibia.

Batrachian (a.) Pertaining to the Batrachia.

Batrachian (n.) One of the Batrachia.

Batrachoid (a.) Froglike. Specifically: Of or pertaining to the Batrachidae, a family of marine fishes, including the toadfish. Some have poisonous dorsal spines.

Batrachomyomachy (n.) The battle between the frogs and mice; -- a Greek parody on the Iliad, of uncertain authorship.

Batrachophagous (a.) Feeding on frogs.

Batsmen (pl. ) of Batsman

Batsman (n.) The one who wields the bat in cricket, baseball, etc.

Bat's-wing (a.) Alt. of Batwing

Batwing (a.) Shaped like a bat's wing; as, a bat's-wing burner.

Batta (n.) Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officer serving in India.

Batta (n.) Rate of exchange; also, the discount on uncurrent coins.

Battable (a.) Capable of cultivation; fertile; productive; fattening.

Battailant (v. i.) Prepared for battle; combatant; warlike.

Battailant (n.) A combatant.

Battailous (n.) Arrayed for battle; fit or eager for battle; warlike.

Battalia (n.) Order of battle; disposition or arrangement of troops (brigades, regiments, battalions, etc.), or of a naval force, for action.

Battalia (n.) An army in battle array; also, the main battalia or body.

Battalion (n.) A body of troops; esp. a body of troops or an army in battle array.

Battalion (n.) A regiment, or two or more companies of a regiment, esp. when assembled for drill or battle.

Battalion (v. t.) To form into battalions.

Battel (n.) A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel, under Wager.

Battel (n.) Provisions ordered from the buttery; also, the charges for them; -- only in the pl., except when used adjectively.

Battel (v. i.) To be supplied with provisions from the buttery.

Battel (v. i.) To make fertile.

Battel (a.) Fertile; fruitful; productive.

Batteler (n.) Alt. of Battler

Battler (n.) A student at Oxford who is supplied with provisions from the buttery; formerly, one who paid for nothing but what he called for, answering nearly to a sizar at Cambridge.

Battened (imp. & p. p.) of Batten

Battening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Batten

Batten (v. t.) To make fat by plenteous feeding; to fatten.

Batten (v. t.) To fertilize or enrich, as land.

Batten (v. i.) To grow fat; to grow fat in ease and luxury; to glut one's self.

Batten (n .) A strip of sawed stuff, or a scantling; as, (a) pl. (Com. & Arch.) Sawed timbers about 7 by 2 1/2 inches and not less than 6 feet long. Brande & C. (b) (Naut.) A strip of wood used in fastening the edges of a tarpaulin to the deck, also around masts to prevent chafing. (c) A long, thin strip used to strengthen a part, to cover a crack, etc.

Batten (v. t.) To furnish or fasten with battens.

Batten (v. t.) The movable bar of a loom, which strikes home or closes the threads of a woof.

Battening (n.) Furring done with small pieces nailed directly upon the wall.

Battered (imp. & p. p.) of Batter

Battering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Batter

Batter (v. t.) To beat with successive blows; to beat repeatedly and with violence, so as to bruise, shatter, or demolish; as, to batter a wall or rampart.

Batter (v. t.) To wear or impair as if by beating or by hard usage.

Batter (v. t.) To flatten (metal) by hammering, so as to compress it inwardly and spread it outwardly.

Batter (v. t.) A semi-liquid mixture of several ingredients, as, flour, eggs, milk, etc., beaten together and used in cookery.

Batter (v. t.) Paste of clay or loam.

Batter (v. t.) A bruise on the face of a plate or of type in the form.

Batter (n.) A backward slope in the face of a wall or of a bank; receding slope.

Batter (v. i.) To slope gently backward.

Batter (n.) One who wields a bat; a batsman.

Batterer (n.) One who, or that which, batters.

Battering-ram (n.) An engine used in ancient times to beat down the walls of besieged places.

Battering-ram (n.) A blacksmith's hammer, suspended, and worked horizontally.

Battering train () A train of artillery for siege operations.

Batteries (pl. ) of Battery

Battery (v. t.) The act of battering or beating.

Battery (v. t.) The unlawful beating of another. It includes every willful, angry and violent, or negligent touching of another's person or clothes, or anything attached to his person or held by him.

Battery (v. t.) Any place where cannon or mortars are mounted, for attack or defense.

Battery (v. t.) Two or more pieces of artillery in the field.

Battery (v. t.) A company or division of artillery, including the gunners, guns, horses, and all equipments. In the United States, a battery of flying artillery consists usually of six guns.

Battery (v. t.) A number of coated jars (Leyden jars) so connected that they may be charged and discharged simultaneously.

Battery (v. t.) An apparatus for generating voltaic electricity.

Battery (v. t.) A number of similar machines or devices in position; an apparatus consisting of a set of similar parts; as, a battery of boilers, of retorts, condensers, etc.

Battery (v. t.) A series of stamps operated by one motive power, for crushing ores containing the precious metals.

Battery (v. t.) The box in which the stamps for crushing ore play up and down.

Battery (v. t.) The pitcher and catcher together.

Batting (n.) The act of one who bats; the management of a bat in playing games of ball.

Batting (n.) Cotton in sheets, prepared for use in making quilts, etc.; as, cotton batting.

Battle (a.) Fertile. See Battel, a.

Battle (v. t.) A general action, fight, or encounter, in which all the divisions of an army are or may be engaged; an engagement; a combat.

Battle (v. t.) A struggle; a contest; as, the battle of life.

Battle (v. t.) A division of an army; a battalion.

Battle (v. t.) The main body, as distinct from the van and rear; battalia.

Battled (imp. & p. p.) of Battle

Battling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Battle

Battle (n.) To join in battle; to contend in fight; as, to battle over theories.

Battle (v. t.) To assail in battle; to fight.

Battle-ax (n.) Alt. of Battle-axe

Battle-axe (n.) A kind of broadax formerly used as an offensive weapon.

Battled (p. p.) Embattled.

Battledoor (n.) An instrument, with a handle and a flat part covered with parchment or crossed with catgut, used to strike a shuttlecock in play; also, the play of battledoor and shuttlecock.

Battledoor (n.) A child's hornbook.

Battlement (n.) One of the solid upright parts of a parapet in ancient fortifications.

Battlement (n.) pl. The whole parapet, consisting of alternate solids and open spaces. At first purely a military feature, afterwards copied on a smaller scale with decorative features, as for churches.

Battlemented (a.) Having battlements.

Battologist (n.) One who battologizes.

Battologize (v. t.) To keep repeating needlessly; to iterate.

Battology (n.) A needless repetition of words in speaking or writing.

Batton (n.) See Batten, and Baton.

Battue (v. t.) The act of beating the woods, bushes, etc., for game.

Battue (v. t.) The game itself.

Battue (v. t.) The wanton slaughter of game.

Batture (n.) An elevated river bed or sea bed.

Battuta (n.) The measuring of time by beating.

Batty (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a bat.

Batule (n.) A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batule board.

Batzen (pl. ) of Batz

Batz (n.) A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly current in some parts of Germany and Switzerland. It was worth about four cents.

Baubee (n.) Same as Bawbee.

Bauble (n.) A trifling piece of finery; a gewgaw; that which is gay and showy without real value; a cheap, showy plaything.

Bauble (n.) The fool's club.

Baubling (a.) See Bawbling.

Baudekin (n.) The richest kind of stuff used in garments in the Middle Ages, the web being gold, and the woof silk, with embroidery : -- made originally at Bagdad.

Baudrick (n.) A belt. See Baldric.

Bauk (n. & v.) Alt. of Baulk

Baulk (n. & v.) See Balk.

Baunscheidtism (n.) A form of acupuncture, followed by the rubbing of the part with a stimulating fluid.

Bauxite (n.) Alt. of Beauxite

Beauxite (n.) A ferruginous hydrate of alumina. It is largely used in the preparation of aluminium and alumina, and for the lining of furnaces which are exposed to intense heat.

Bavarian (a.) Of or pertaining to Bavaria.

Bavarian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Bavaria.

Bavaroy (n.) A kind of cloak or surtout.

Bavian (n.) A baboon.

Bavin (n.) A fagot of brushwood, or other light combustible matter, for kindling fires; refuse of brushwood.

Bavin (n.) Impure limestone.

Bawbee (n.) A halfpenny.

Bawble (n.) A trinket. See Bauble.

Bawbling (a.) Insignificant; contemptible.

Bawcock (n.) A fine fellow; -- a term of endearment.

Bawd (n.) A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures women for a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; -- usually applied to a woman.

Bawd (v. i.) To procure women for lewd purposes.

Bawdily (adv.) Obscenely; lewdly.

Bawdiness (n.) Obscenity; lewdness.

Bawdrick (n.) A belt. See Baldric.

Bawdry (n.) The practice of procuring women for the gratification of lust.

Bawdry (n.) Illicit intercourse; fornication.

Bawdry (n.) Obscenity; filthy, unchaste language.

Bawdy (a.) Dirty; foul; -- said of clothes.

Bawdy (a.) Obscene; filthy; unchaste.

Bawdyhouse (n.) A house of prostitution; a house of ill fame; a brothel.

Bawhorse (n.) Same as Bathorse.

Bawled (imp. & p. p.) of Bawl

Bawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bawl

Bawl (v. i.) To cry out with a loud, full sound; to cry with vehemence, as in calling or exultation; to shout; to vociferate.

Bawl (v. i.) To cry loudly, as a child from pain or vexation.

Bawl (v. t.) To proclaim with a loud voice, or by outcry, as a hawker or town-crier does.

Bawl (n.) A loud, prolonged cry; an outcry.

Bawler (n.) One who bawls.

Bawn (n.) An inclosure with mud or stone walls, for keeping cattle; a fortified inclosure.

Bawn (n.) A large house.

Bawrel (n.) A kind of hawk.

Bawsin (n.) Alt. of Bawson

Bawson (n.) A badger.

Bawson (n.) A large, unwieldy person.

Baxter (n.) A baker; originally, a female baker.

Bay (a.) Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to the color of horses.

Bay (n.) An inlet of the sea, usually smaller than a gulf, but of the same general character.

Bay (n.) A small body of water set off from the main body; as a compartment containing water for a wheel; the portion of a canal just outside of the gates of a lock, etc.

Bay (n.) A recess or indentation shaped like a bay.

Bay (n.) A principal compartment of the walls, roof, or other part of a building, or of the whole building, as marked off by the buttresses, vaulting, mullions of a window, etc.; one of the main divisions of any structure, as the part of a bridge between two piers.

Bay (n.) A compartment in a barn, for depositing hay, or grain in the stalks.

Bay (n.) A kind of mahogany obtained from Campeachy Bay.

Bay (n.) A berry, particularly of the laurel.

Bay (n.) The laurel tree (Laurus nobilis). Hence, in the plural, an honorary garland or crown bestowed as a prize for victory or excellence, anciently made or consisting of branches of the laurel.

Bay (n.) A tract covered with bay trees.

Bayed (imp. & p. p.) of Bay

Baying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bay

Bay (v. i.) To bark, as a dog with a deep voice does, at his game.

Bay (v. t.) To bark at; hence, to follow with barking; to bring or drive to bay; as, to bay the bear.

Bay (v. i.) Deep-toned, prolonged barking.

Bay (v. i.) A state of being obliged to face an antagonist or a difficulty, when escape has become impossible.

Bay (v. t.) To bathe.

Bay (n.) A bank or dam to keep back water.

Bay (v. t.) To dam, as water; -- with up or back.

Baya (n.) The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus).

Bayad (n.) Alt. of Bayatte

Bayatte (n.) A large, edible, siluroid fish of the Nile, of two species (Bagrina bayad and B. docmac).

Bayadere (n.) A female dancer in the East Indies.

Bay-antler (n.) The second tine of a stag's horn. See under Antler.

Bayard (a.) Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse. Commonly in the phrase blind bayard, an old blind horse.

Bayard (a.) A stupid, clownish fellow.

Bayardly (a.) Blind; stupid.

Bayberry (n.) The fruit of the bay tree or Laurus nobilis.

Bayberry (n.) A tree of the West Indies related to the myrtle (Pimenta acris).

Bayberry (n.) The fruit of Myrica cerifera (wax myrtle); the shrub itself; -- called also candleberry tree.

Baybolt (n.) A bolt with a barbed shank.

Bayed (a.) Having a bay or bays.

Bay ice () See under Ice.

Bay leaf () See under 3d Bay.

Bayonet (n.) A pointed instrument of the dagger kind fitted on the muzzle of a musket or rifle, so as to give the soldier increased means of offense and defense.

Bayonet (n.) A pin which plays in and out of holes made to receive it, and which thus serves to engage or disengage parts of the machinery.

Bayoneted (imp. & p. p.) of Bayonet

Bayoneting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bayonet

Bayonet (v. t.) To stab with a bayonet.

Bayonet (v. t.) To compel or drive by the bayonet.

Bayous (pl. ) of Bayou

Bayou (n.) An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a large river, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movement except from tide and wind.

Bay rum () A fragrant liquid, used for cosmetic and medicinal purposes.

Bays (n.) Alt. of Bayze

Bayze (n.) See Baize.

Bay salt () Salt which has been obtained from sea water, by evaporation in shallow pits or basins, by the heat of the sun; the large crystalline salt of commerce.

Bay tree () A species of laurel. (Laurus nobilis).

Bay window () A window forming a bay or recess in a room, and projecting outward from the wall, either in a rectangular, polygonal, or semicircular form; -- often corruptly called a bow window.

Bay yarn () Woolen yarn.

Bazaar (n.) Alt. of Bazar

Bazar (n.) In the East, an exchange, marketplace, or assemblage of shops where goods are exposed for sale.

Bazar (n.) A spacious hall or suite of rooms for the sale of goods, as at a fair.

Bazar (n.) A fair for the sale of fancy wares, toys, etc., commonly for a charitable objects.

Bdellium (n.) An unidentified substance mentioned in the Bible (Gen. ii. 12, and Num. xi. 7), variously taken to be a gum, a precious stone, or pearls, or perhaps a kind of amber found in Arabia.

Bdellium (n.) A gum resin of reddish brown color, brought from India, Persia, and Africa.

Bdelloidea (n. pl.) The order of Annulata which includes the leeches. See Hirudinea.

Bdellometer (n.) A cupping glass to which are attached a scarificator and an exhausting syringe.

Bdellomorpha (n.) An order of Nemertina, including the large leechlike worms (Malacobdella) often parasitic in clams.

Was (imp.) of Be

Been (p. p.) of Be

Being (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Be

Be (v. i.) To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have ex/stence.

Be (v. i.) To exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality or as a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain predicate, that is, as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or as identical with what is specified, -- a word or words for the predicate being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of existence; that is the man.

Be (v. i.) To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday.

Be (v. i.) To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer to.

Be- () A prefix, originally the same word as by;

Be- () To intensify the meaning; as, bespatter, bestir.

Be- () To render an intransitive verb transitive; as, befall (to fall upon); bespeak (to speak for).

Be- () To make the action of a verb particular or definite; as, beget (to get as offspring); beset (to set around).

Beaches (pl. ) of Beach

Beach (n.) Pebbles, collectively; shingle.

Beach (n.) The shore of the sea, or of a lake, which is washed by the waves; especially, a sandy or pebbly shore; the strand.

Beached (imp. & p. p.) of Beach

Beaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beach

Beach (v. t.) To run or drive (as a vessel or a boat) upon a beach; to strand; as, to beach a ship.

Beach comber () A long, curling wave rolling in from the ocean. See Comber.

Beached (p. p. & a.) Bordered by a beach.

Beached (p. p. & a.) Driven on a beach; stranded; drawn up on a beach; as, the ship is beached.

Beachy (a.) Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches; shingly.

Beacon (n.) A signal fire to notify of the approach of an enemy, or to give any notice, commonly of warning.

Beacon (n.) A signal or conspicuous mark erected on an eminence near the shore, or moored in shoal water, as a guide to mariners.

Beacon (n.) A high hill near the shore.

Beacon (n.) That which gives notice of danger.

Beaconed (imp. & p. p.) of Beacon

Beaconing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beacon

Beacon (v. t.) To give light to, as a beacon; to light up; to illumine.

Beacon (v. t.) To furnish with a beacon or beacons.

Beaconage (n.) Money paid for the maintenance of a beacon; also, beacons, collectively.

Beaconless (a.) Having no beacon.

Bead (n.) A prayer.

Bead (n.) A little perforated ball, to be strung on a thread, and worn for ornament; or used in a rosary for counting prayers, as by Roman Catholics and Mohammedans, whence the phrases to tell beads, to at one's beads, to bid beads, etc., meaning, to be at prayer.

Bead (n.) Any small globular body

Bead (n.) A bubble in spirits.

Bead (n.) A drop of sweat or other liquid.

Bead (n.) A small knob of metal on a firearm, used for taking aim (whence the expression to draw a bead, for, to take aim).

Bead (n.) A small molding of rounded surface, the section being usually an arc of a circle. It may be continuous, or broken into short embossments.

Bead (n.) A glassy drop of molten flux, as borax or microcosmic salt, used as a solvent and color test for several mineral earths and oxides, as of iron, manganese, etc., before the blowpipe; as, the borax bead; the iron bead, etc.

Beaded (imp. & p. p.) of Bead

Beading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bead

Bead (v. t.) To ornament with beads or beading.

Bead (v. i.) To form beadlike bubbles.

Beadhouse (n.) Alt. of Bedehouse

Bedehouse (n.) An almshouse for poor people who pray daily for their benefactors.

Beading (n.) Molding in imitation of beads.

Beading (n.) The beads or bead-forming quality of certain liquors; as, the beading of a brand of whisky.

Beadle (v.) A messenger or crier of a court; a servitor; one who cites or bids persons to appear and answer; -- called also an apparitor or summoner.

Beadle (v.) An officer in a university, who precedes public processions of officers and students.

Beadle (v.) An inferior parish officer in England having a variety of duties, as the preservation of order in church service, the chastisement of petty offenders, etc.

Beadlery (n.) Office or jurisdiction of a beadle.

Beadleship (n.) The state of being, or the personality of, a beadle.

Bead proof () Among distillers, a certain degree of strength in alcoholic liquor, as formerly ascertained by the floating or sinking of glass globules of different specific gravities thrown into it; now ascertained by more accurate meters.

Bead proof () A degree of strength in alcoholic liquor as shown by beads or small bubbles remaining on its surface, or at the side of the glass, when shaken.

Beadroll (n.) A catalogue of persons, for the rest of whose souls a certain number of prayers are to be said or counted off on the beads of a chaplet; hence, a catalogue in general.

-men (pl. ) of Bedesman

Beadsman (n.) Alt. of Bedesman

Bedesman (n.) A poor man, supported in a beadhouse, and required to pray for the soul of its founder; an almsman.

Beadsnake (n.) A small poisonous snake of North America (Elaps fulvius), banded with yellow, red, and black.

-women (pl. ) of Bedeswoman

Beadswoman (n.) Alt. of Bedeswoman

Bedeswoman (n.) Fem. of Beadsman.

Beadwork (n.) Ornamental work in beads.

Beady (a.) Resembling beads; small, round, and glistening.

Beady (a.) Covered or ornamented with, or as with, beads.

Beady (a.) Characterized by beads; as, beady liquor.

Beagle (n.) A small hound, or hunting dog, twelve to fifteen inches high, used in hunting hares and other small game. See Illustration in Appendix.

Beagle (n.) Fig.: A spy or detective; a constable.

Beak (n.) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a horny sheath, covering the jaws. The form varied much according to the food and habits of the bird, and is largely used in the classification of birds.

Beak (n.) A similar bill in other animals, as the turtles.

Beak (n.) The long projecting sucking mouth of some insects, and other invertebrates, as in the Hemiptera.

Beak (n.) The upper or projecting part of the shell, near the hinge of a bivalve.

Beak (n.) The prolongation of certain univalve shells containing the canal.

Beak (n.) Anything projecting or ending in a point, like a beak, as a promontory of land.

Beak (n.) A beam, shod or armed at the end with a metal head or point, and projecting from the prow of an ancient galley, in order to pierce the vessel of an enemy; a beakhead.

Beak (n.) That part of a ship, before the forecastle, which is fastened to the stem, and supported by the main knee.

Beak (n.) A continuous slight projection ending in an arris or narrow fillet; that part of a drip from which the water is thrown off.

Beak (n.) Any process somewhat like the beak of a bird, terminating the fruit or other parts of a plant.

Beak (n.) A toe clip. See Clip, n. (Far.).

Beak (n.) A magistrate or policeman.

Beaked (a.) Having a beak or a beaklike point; beak-shaped.

Beaked (a.) Furnished with a process or a mouth like a beak; rostrate.

Beaker (n.) A large drinking cup, with a wide mouth, supported on a foot or standard.

Beaker (n.) An open-mouthed, thin glass vessel, having a projecting lip for pouring; -- used for holding solutions requiring heat.

Beakhead (n.) An ornament used in rich Norman doorways, resembling a head with a beak.

Beakhead (n.) A small platform at the fore part of the upper deck of a vessel, which contains the water closets of the crew.

Beakhead (n.) Same as Beak, 3.

Beakiron (n.) A bickern; a bench anvil with a long beak, adapted to reach the interior surface of sheet metal ware; the horn of an anvil.

Bealed (imp. & p. p.) of Beal

Bealing (p. pr & vb. n.) of Beal

Beal (v. i.) To gather matter; to swell and come to a head, as a pimple.

Be-all (n.) The whole; all that is to be.

Beam (n.) Any large piece of timber or iron long in proportion to its thickness, and prepared for use.

Beam (n.) One of the principal horizontal timbers of a building or ship.

Beam (n.) The width of a vessel; as, one vessel is said to have more beam than another.

Beam (n.) The bar of a balance, from the ends of which the scales are suspended.

Beam (n.) The principal stem or horn of a stag or other deer, which bears the antlers, or branches.

Beam (n.) The pole of a carriage.

Beam (n.) A cylinder of wood, making part of a loom, on which weavers wind the warp before weaving; also, the cylinder on which the cloth is rolled, as it is woven; one being called the fore beam, the other the back beam.

Beam (n.) The straight part or shank of an anchor.

Beam (n.) The main part of a plow, to which the handles and colter are secured, and to the end of which are attached the oxen or horses that draw it.

Beam (n.) A heavy iron lever having an oscillating motion on a central axis, one end of which is connected with the piston rod from which it receives motion, and the other with the crank of the wheel shaft; -- called also working beam or walking beam.

Beam (n.) A ray or collection of parallel rays emitted from the sun or other luminous body; as, a beam of light, or of heat.

Beam (n.) Fig.: A ray; a gleam; as, a beam of comfort.

Beam (n.) One of the long feathers in the wing of a hawk; -- called also beam feather.

Beamed (imp. & p. p.) of Beam

Beaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beam

Beam (v. t.) To send forth; to emit; -- followed ordinarily by forth; as, to beam forth light.

Beam (v. i.) To emit beams of light.

Beambird (n.) A small European flycatcher (Muscicapa gricola), so called because it often nests on a beam in a building.

Beamed (a.) Furnished with beams, as the head of a stag.

Beamful (a.) Beamy; radiant.

Beamily (adv.) In a beaming manner.

Beaminess (n.) The state of being beamy.

Beaming (a.) Emitting beams; radiant.

Beamingly (adv.) In a beaming manner; radiantly.

Beamless (a.) Not having a beam.

Beamless (a.) Not emitting light.

Beamlet (n.) A small beam of light.

Beam tree () A tree (Pyrus aria) related to the apple.

Beamy (a.) Emitting beams of light; radiant; shining.

Beamy (a.) Resembling a beam in size and weight; massy.

Beamy (a.) Having horns, or antlers.

Bean (n.) A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chiefly of the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs.

Bean (n.) The popular name of other vegetable seeds or fruits, more or less resembling true beans.

Bean caper () A deciduous plant of warm climates, generally with fleshy leaves and flowers of a yellow or whitish yellow color, of the genus Zygophyllum.

Bean trefoil () A leguminous shrub of southern Europe, with trifoliate leaves (Anagyris foetida).

Bore (imp.) of Bear

Bare () of Bear

Born (p. p.) of Bear

Borne () of Bear

Bearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bear

Bear (v. t.) To support or sustain; to hold up.

Bear (v. t.) To support and remove or carry; to convey.

Bear (v. t.) To conduct; to bring; -- said of persons.

Bear (v. t.) To possess and use, as power; to exercise.

Bear (v. t.) To sustain; to have on (written or inscribed, or as a mark), as, the tablet bears this inscription.

Bear (v. t.) To possess or carry, as a mark of authority or distinction; to wear; as, to bear a sword, badge, or name.

Bear (v. t.) To possess mentally; to carry or hold in the mind; to entertain; to harbor

Bear (v. t.) To endure; to tolerate; to undergo; to suffer.

Bear (v. t.) To gain or win.

Bear (v. t.) To sustain, or be answerable for, as blame, expense, responsibility, etc.

Bear (v. t.) To render or give; to bring forward.

Bear (v. t.) To carry on, or maintain; to have.

Bear (v. t.) To admit or be capable of; that is, to suffer or sustain without violence, injury, or change.

Bear (v. t.) To manage, wield, or direct.

Bear (v. t.) To behave; to conduct.

Bear (v. t.) To afford; to be to; to supply with.

Bear (v. t.) To bring forth or produce; to yield; as, to bear apples; to bear children; to bear interest.

Bear (v. i.) To produce, as fruit; to be fruitful, in opposition to barrenness.

Bear (v. i.) To suffer, as in carrying a burden.

Bear (v. i.) To endure with patience; to be patient.

Bear (v. i.) To press; -- with on or upon, or against.

Bear (v. i.) To take effect; to have influence or force; as, to bring matters to bear.

Bear (v. i.) To relate or refer; -- with on or upon; as, how does this bear on the question?

Bear (v. i.) To have a certain meaning, intent, or effect.

Bear (v. i.) To be situated, as to the point of compass, with respect to something else; as, the land bears N. by E.

Bear (n.) A bier.

Bear (n.) Any species of the genus Ursus, and of the closely allied genera. Bears are plantigrade Carnivora, but they live largely on fruit and insects.

Bear (n.) An animal which has some resemblance to a bear in form or habits, but no real affinity; as, the woolly bear; ant bear; water bear; sea bear.

Bear (n.) One of two constellations in the northern hemisphere, called respectively the Great Bear and the Lesser Bear, or Ursa Major and Ursa Minor.

Bear (n.) Metaphorically: A brutal, coarse, or morose person.

Bear (n.) A person who sells stocks or securities for future delivery in expectation of a fall in the market.

Bear (n.) A portable punching machine.

Bear (n.) A block covered with coarse matting; -- used to scour the deck.

Bear (v. t.) To endeavor to depress the price of, or prices in; as, to bear a railroad stock; to bear the market.

Bear (n.) Alt. of Bere

Bere (n.) Barley; the six-rowed barley or the four-rowed barley, commonly the former (Hord. vulgare).

Bearable (a.) Capable of being borne or endured; tolerable.

Bearberry (n.) A trailing plant of the heath family (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi), having leaves which are tonic and astringent, and glossy red berries of which bears are said to be fond.

Bearbind (n.) The bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).

Beard (n.) The hair that grows on the chin, lips, and adjacent parts of the human face, chiefly of male adults.

Beard (n.) The long hairs about the face in animals, as in the goat.

Beard (n.) The cluster of small feathers at the base of the beak in some birds

Beard (n.) The appendages to the jaw in some Cetacea, and to the mouth or jaws of some fishes.

Beard (n.) The byssus of certain shellfish, as the muscle.

Beard (n.) The gills of some bivalves, as the oyster.

Beard (n.) In insects, the hairs of the labial palpi of moths and butterflies.

Beard (n.) Long or stiff hairs on a plant; the awn; as, the beard of grain.

Beard (n.) A barb or sharp point of an arrow or other instrument, projecting backward to prevent the head from being easily drawn out.

Beard (n.) That part of the under side of a horse's lower jaw which is above the chin, and bears the curb of a bridle.

Beard (n.) That part of a type which is between the shoulder of the shank and the face.

Beard (n.) An imposition; a trick.

Bearded (imp. & p. p.) of Beard

Bearding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beard

Beard (v. t.) To take by the beard; to seize, pluck, or pull the beard of (a man), in anger or contempt.

Beard (v. t.) To oppose to the gills; to set at defiance.

Beard (v. t.) To deprive of the gills; -- used only of oysters and similar shellfish.

Bearded (a.) Having a beard.

Beardie (n.) The bearded loach (Nemachilus barbatus) of Europe.

Beardless (a.) Without a beard. Hence: Not having arrived at puberty or manhood; youthful.

Beardless (a.) Destitute of an awn; as, beardless wheat.

Beardlessness (n.) The state or quality of being destitute of beard.

Bearer (n.) One who, or that which, bears, sustains, or carries.

Bearer (n.) Specifically: One who assists in carrying a body to the grave; a pallbearer.

Bearer (n.) A palanquin carrier; also, a house servant.

Bearer (n.) A tree or plant yielding fruit; as, a good bearer.

Bearer (n.) One who holds a check, note, draft, or other order for the payment of money; as, pay to bearer.

Bearer (n.) A strip of reglet or other furniture to bear off the impression from a blank page; also, a type or type-high piece of metal interspersed in blank parts to support the plate when it is shaved.

Bearherd (n.) A man who tends a bear.

Bearhound (n.) A hound for baiting or hunting bears.

Bearing (n.) The manner in which one bears or conducts one's self; mien; behavior; carriage.

Bearing (n.) Patient endurance; suffering without complaint.

Bearing (n.) The situation of one object, with respect to another, such situation being supposed to have a connection with the object, or influence upon it, or to be influenced by it; hence, relation; connection.

Bearing (n.) Purport; meaning; intended significance; aspect.

Bearing (n.) The act, power, or time of producing or giving birth; as, a tree in full bearing; a tree past bearing.

Bearing (n.) That part of any member of a building which rests upon its supports; as, a lintel or beam may have four inches of bearing upon the wall.

Bearing (n.) The portion of a support on which anything rests.

Bearing (n.) Improperly, the unsupported span; as, the beam has twenty feet of bearing between its supports.

Bearing (n.) The part of an axle or shaft in contact with its support, collar, or boxing; the journal.

Bearing (n.) The part of the support on which a journal rests and rotates.

Bearing (n.) Any single emblem or charge in an escutcheon or coat of arms -- commonly in the pl.

Bearing (n.) The situation of a distant object, with regard to a ship's position, as on the bow, on the lee quarter, etc.; the direction or point of the compass in which an object is seen; as, the bearing of the cape was W. N. W.

Bearing (n.) The widest part of a vessel below the plank-sheer.

Bearing (n.) The line of flotation of a vessel when properly trimmed with cargo or ballast.

Bearing cloth () A cloth with which a child is covered when carried to be baptized.

Bearing rein () A short rein looped over the check hook or the hames to keep the horse's head up; -- called in the United States a checkrein.

Bearish (a.) Partaking of the qualities of a bear; resembling a bear in temper or manners.

Bearishness (n.) Behavior like that of a bear.

Bearn (n.) See Bairn.

Bear's-breech (n.) See Acanthus, n., 1.

Bear's-breech (n.) The English cow parsnip (Heracleum sphondylium)

Bear's-ear (n.) A kind of primrose (Primula auricula), so called from the shape of the leaf.

Bear's-foot (n.) A species of hellebore (Helleborus foetidus), with digitate leaves. It has an offensive smell and acrid taste, and is a powerful emetic, cathartic, and anthelmintic.

Bearskin (n.) The skin of a bear.

Bearskin (n.) A coarse, shaggy, woolen cloth for overcoats.

Bearskin (n.) A cap made of bearskin, esp. one worn by soldiers.

Bear's-paw (n.) A large bivalve shell of the East Indies (Hippopus maculatus), often used as an ornament.

Bearward (n.) A keeper of bears. See Bearherd.

Beast (n.) Any living creature; an animal; -- including man, insects, etc.

Beast (n.) Any four-footed animal, that may be used for labor, food, or sport; as, a beast of burden.

Beast (n.) As opposed to man: Any irrational animal.

Beast (n.) Fig.: A coarse, brutal, filthy, or degraded fellow.

Beast (n.) A game at cards similar to loo.

Beast (n.) A penalty at beast, omber, etc. Hence: To be beasted, to be beaten at beast, omber, etc.

Beasthood (n.) State or nature of a beast.

Beastings (n. pl.) See Biestings.

Beastlihead (n.) Beastliness.

Beastlike (a.) Like a beast.

Beastliness (n.) The state or quality of being beastly.

Beastly (a.) Pertaining to, or having the form, nature, or habits of, a beast.

Beastly (a.) Characterizing the nature of a beast; contrary to the nature and dignity of man; brutal; filthy.

Beastly (a.) Abominable; as, beastly weather.

Beat (imp.) of Beat

Beat (p. p.) of Beat

Beaten () of Beat

Beating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beat

Beat (v. t.) To strike repeatedly; to lay repeated blows upon; as, to beat one's breast; to beat iron so as to shape it; to beat grain, in order to force out the seeds; to beat eggs and sugar; to beat a drum.

Beat (v. t.) To punish by blows; to thrash.

Beat (v. t.) To scour or range over in hunting, accompanied with the noise made by striking bushes, etc., for the purpose of rousing game.

Beat (v. t.) To dash against, or strike, as with water or wind.

Beat (v. t.) To tread, as a path.

Beat (v. t.) To overcome in a battle, contest, strife, race, game, etc.; to vanquish or conquer; to surpass.

Beat (v. t.) To cheat; to chouse; to swindle; to defraud; -- often with out.

Beat (v. t.) To exercise severely; to perplex; to trouble.

Beat (v. t.) To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat of drum; as, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beat the general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley, etc.

Beat (v. i.) To strike repeatedly; to inflict repeated blows; to knock vigorously or loudly.

Beat (v. i.) To move with pulsation or throbbing.

Beat (v. i.) To come or act with violence; to dash or fall with force; to strike anything, as, rain, wind, and waves do.

Beat (v. i.) To be in agitation or doubt.

Beat (v. i.) To make progress against the wind, by sailing in a zigzag line or traverse.

Beat (v. i.) To make a sound when struck; as, the drums beat.

Beat (v. i.) To make a succession of strokes on a drum; as, the drummers beat to call soldiers to their quarters.

Beat (v. i.) To sound with more or less rapid alternations of greater and less intensity, so as to produce a pulsating effect; -- said of instruments, tones, or vibrations, not perfectly in unison.

Beat (n.) A stroke; a blow.

Beat (n.) A recurring stroke; a throb; a pulsation; as, a beat of the heart; the beat of the pulse.

Beat (n.) The rise or fall of the hand or foot, marking the divisions of time; a division of the measure so marked. In the rhythm of music the beat is the unit.

Beat (n.) A transient grace note, struck immediately before the one it is intended to ornament.

Beat (n.) A sudden swelling or reenforcement of a sound, recurring at regular intervals, and produced by the interference of sound waves of slightly different periods of vibrations; applied also, by analogy, to other kinds of wave motions; the pulsation or throbbing produced by the vibrating together of two tones not quite in unison. See Beat, v. i., 8.

Beat (v. i.) A round or course which is frequently gone over; as, a watchman's beat.

Beat (v. i.) A place of habitual or frequent resort.

Beat (v. i.) A cheat or swindler of the lowest grade; -- often emphasized by dead; as, a dead beat.

Beat (a.) Weary; tired; fatigued; exhausted.

Beaten (a.) Made smooth by beating or treading; worn by use.

Beaten (a.) Vanquished; conquered; baffled.

Beaten (a.) Exhausted; tired out.

Beaten (a.) Become common or trite; as, a beaten phrase.

Beaten (a.) Tried; practiced.

Beater (n.) One who, or that which, beats.

Beater (n.) A person who beats up game for the hunters.

Beath (v. t.) To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood.

Beatific (a.) Alt. of Beatifical

Beatifical (a.) Having the power to impart or complete blissful enjoyment; blissful.

Beatificate (v. t.) To beatify.

Beatification (n.) The act of beatifying, or the state of being beatified; esp., in the R. C. Church, the act or process of ascertaining and declaring that a deceased person is one of the blessed, or has attained the second degree of sanctity, -- usually a stage in the process of canonization.

Beatified (imp. & p. p.) of Beatify

Beatifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beatify

Beatify (v. t.) To pronounce or regard as happy, or supremely blessed, or as conferring happiness.

Beatify (v. t.) To make happy; to bless with the completion of celestial enjoyment.

Beatify (v. t.) To ascertain and declare, by a public process and decree, that a deceased person is one of the blessed and is to be reverenced as such, though not canonized.

Beating (n.) The act of striking or giving blows; punishment or chastisement by blows.

Beating (n.) Pulsation; throbbing; as, the beating of the heart.

Beating (n.) Pulsative sounds. See Beat, n.

Beating (n.) The process of sailing against the wind by tacks in zigzag direction.

Beatitude (n.) Felicity of the highest kind; consummate bliss.

Beatitude (n.) Any one of the nine declarations (called the Beatitudes), made in the Sermon on the Mount (Matt. v. 3-12), with regard to the blessedness of those who are distinguished by certain specified virtues.

Beatitude (n.) Beatification.

Beaux (pl. ) of Beau

Beaus (pl. ) of Beau

Beau (n.) A man who takes great care to dress in the latest fashion; a dandy.

Beau (n.) A man who escorts, or pays attentions to, a lady; an escort; a lover.

Beaucatcher (n.) A small flat curl worn on the temple by women.

Beaufet (n.) A niche, cupboard, or sideboard for plate, china, glass, etc.; a buffet.

Beaufin (n.) See Biffin.

Beau ideal () A conception or image of consummate beauty, moral or physical, formed in the mind, free from all the deformities, defects, and blemishes seen in actual existence; an ideal or faultless standard or model.

Beauish (n.) Like a beau; characteristic of a beau; foppish; fine.

Beau monde () The fashionable world; people of fashion and gayety.

Beaupere (n.) A father.

Beaupere (n.) A companion.

Beauseant (n.) The black and white standard of the Knights Templars.

Beauship (n.) The state of being a beau; the personality of a beau.

Beauteous (a.) Full of beauty; beautiful; very handsome.

Beautied (p. a.) Beautiful; embellished.

Beautifier (n.) One who, or that which, beautifies or makes beautiful.

Beautiful (a.) Having the qualities which constitute beauty; pleasing to the sight or the mind.

Beautified (imp. & p. p.) of Beautify

Beautifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beautify

Beautify (v. t.) To make or render beautiful; to add beauty to; to adorn; to deck; to grace; to embellish.

Beautify (v. i.) To become beautiful; to advance in beauty.

Beautiless (a.) Destitute of beauty.

Beautie (pl. ) of Beauty

Beauty (n.) An assemblage or graces or properties pleasing to the eye, the ear, the intellect, the aesthetic faculty, or the moral sense.

Beauty (n.) A particular grace, feature, ornament, or excellence; anything beautiful; as, the beauties of nature.

Beauty (n.) A beautiful person, esp. a beautiful woman.

Beauty (n.) Prevailing style or taste; rage; fashion.

Beaux (n.) pl. of Beau.

Beauxite (n.) See Bauxite.

Beaver (n.) An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor.

Beaver (n.) The fur of the beaver.

Beaver (n.) A hat, formerly made of the fur of the beaver, but now usually of silk.

Beaver (n.) Beaver cloth, a heavy felted woolen cloth, used chiefly for making overcoats.

Beaver (n.) That piece of armor which protected the lower part of the face, whether forming a part of the helmet or fixed to the breastplate. It was so constructed (with joints or otherwise) that the wearer could raise or lower it to eat and drink.

Beavered (a.) Covered with, or wearing, a beaver or hat.

Beaverteen (n.) A kind of fustian made of coarse twilled cotton, shorn after dyeing.

Bebeerine (n.) Alt. of Bebirine

Bebirine (n.) An alkaloid got from the bark of the bebeeru, or green heart of Guiana (Nectandra Rodioei). It is a tonic, antiperiodic, and febrifuge, and is used in medicine as a substitute for quinine.

Bebleed (v. t.) To make bloody; to stain with blood.

Beblood (v. t.) Alt. of Bebloody

Bebloody (v. t.) To make bloody; to stain with blood.

Beblot (v. t.) To blot; to stain.

Beblubber (v. t.) To make swollen and disfigured or sullied by weeping; as, her eyes or cheeks were beblubbered.

Becalmed (imp. & p. p.) of Becalm

Becalming (n.) of Becalm

Becalm (v. t.) To render calm or quiet; to calm; to still; to appease.

Becalm (v. t.) To keep from motion, or stop the progress of, by the stilling of the wind; as, the fleet was becalmed.

Became () imp. of Become.

Becard (n.) A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityra inquisetor).

Because (conj.) By or for the cause that; on this account that; for the reason that.

Because (conj.) In order that; that.

Beccabunga (n.) See Brooklime.

Beccaficos (pl. ) of Beccafico

Beccafico (n.) A small bird. (Silvia hortensis), which is highly prized by the Italians for the delicacy of its flesh in the autumn, when it has fed on figs, grapes, etc.

Bechamel (n.) A rich, white sauce, prepared with butter and cream.

Bechance (adv.) By chance; by accident.

Bechance (v. t. & i.) To befall; to chance; to happen to.

Becharm (v. t.) To charm; to captivate.

Beche de mer () The trepang.

Bechic () Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough.

Bechic (n.) A medicine for relieving coughs.

Beck (n.) See Beak.

Beck (n.) A small brook.

Beck (n.) A vat. See Back.

Becked (imp. & p. p.) of Beck

Becking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beck

Beck (v. i.) To nod, or make a sign with the head or hand.

Beck (v. t.) To notify or call by a nod, or a motion of the head or hand; to intimate a command to.

Beck (n.) A significant nod, or motion of the head or hand, esp. as a call or command.

Becker (n.) A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus); the sea bream or braise.

Becket (n.) A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope / metal for holding things in position, as spars, ropes, etc.; also a bracket, a pocket, or a handle made of rope.

Becket (n.) A spade for digging turf.

Beckoned (imp. & p. p.) of Beckon

Beckoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beckon

Beckon (v. t.) To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motion of the hand.

Beckon (n.) A sign made without words; a beck.

Beclap (v. t.) To catch; to grasp; to insnare.

Beclipped (imp. & p. p.) of Beclip

Beclip (v. t.) To embrace; to surround.

Beclouded (imp. & p. p.) of Becloud

Beclouding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Becloud

Becloud (v. t.) To cause obscurity or dimness to; to dim; to cloud.

Became (imp.) of Become

Become (p. p.) of Become

Becoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Become

Become (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to enter into some state or condition, by a change from another state, or by assuming or receiving new properties or qualities, additional matter, or a new character.

Become (v. i.) To come; to get.

Become (v. t.) To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; to accord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, or proper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things.

Becomed (a.) Proper; decorous.

Becoming (a.) Appropriate or fit; congruous; suitable; graceful; befitting.

Becoming (n.) That which is becoming or appropriate.

Becomingly (adv.) In a becoming manner.

Becomingness (n.) The quality of being becoming, appropriate, or fit; congruity; fitness.

Becripple (v. t.) To make a cripple of; to cripple; to lame.

Becuna (n.) A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyraena spet). See Barracuda.

Becurl (v. t.) To curl; to adorn with curls.

Bed (n.) An article of furniture to sleep or take rest in or on; a couch. Specifically: A sack or mattress, filled with some soft material, in distinction from the bedstead on which it is placed (as, a feather bed), or this with the bedclothes added. In a general sense, any thing or place used for sleeping or reclining on or in, as a quantity of hay, straw, leaves, or twigs.

Bed (n.) (Used as the symbol of matrimony) Marriage.

Bed (n.) A plat or level piece of ground in a garden, usually a little raised above the adjoining ground.

Bed (n.) A mass or heap of anything arranged like a bed; as, a bed of ashes or coals.

Bed (n.) The bottom of a watercourse, or of any body of water; as, the bed of a river.

Bed (n.) A layer or seam, or a horizontal stratum between layers; as, a bed of coal, iron, etc.

Bed (n.) See Gun carriage, and Mortar bed.

Bed (n.) The horizontal surface of a building stone; as, the upper and lower beds.

Bed (n.) A course of stone or brick in a wall.

Bed (n.) The place or material in which a block or brick is laid.

Bed (n.) The lower surface of a brick, slate, or tile.

Bed (n.) The foundation or the more solid and fixed part or framing of a machine; or a part on which something is laid or supported; as, the bed of an engine.

Bed (n.) The superficial earthwork, or ballast, of a railroad.

Bed (n.) The flat part of the press, on which the form is laid.

Bedded (imp. & p. p.) of Bed

Bedding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bed

Bed (v. t.) To place in a bed.

Bed (v. t.) To make partaker of one's bed; to cohabit with.

Bed (v. t.) To furnish with a bed or bedding.

Bed (v. t.) To plant or arrange in beds; to set, or cover, as in a bed of soft earth; as, to bed the roots of a plant in mold.

Bed (v. t.) To lay or put in any hollow place, or place of rest and security, surrounded or inclosed; to embed; to furnish with or place upon a bed or foundation; as, to bed a stone; it was bedded on a rock.

Bed (v. t.) To dress or prepare the surface of stone) so as to serve as a bed.

Bed (v. t.) To lay flat; to lay in order; to place in a horizontal or recumbent position.

Bed (v. i.) To go to bed; to cohabit.

Bedabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Bedabble

Bedabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedabble

Bedabble (v. t.) To dabble; to sprinkle or wet.

Bedaff (v. t.) To make a daff or fool of.

Bedagat (n.) The sacred books of the Buddhists in Burmah.

Bedaggle (v. t.) To daggle.

Bedashed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedash

Bedashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedash

Bedash (v. t.) To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; to bespatter.

Bedaubed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedaub

Bedaubing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedaub

Bedaub (v. t.) To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty.

Bedazzled (imp. & p. p.) of Bedazzle

Bedazzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedazzle

Bedazzle (v. t.) To dazzle or make dim by a strong light.

Bedbug (n.) A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (Cimex Lectularius), sometimes infesting houses and especially beds. See Illustration in Appendix.

Bedchair (n.) A chair with adjustable back, for the sick, to support them while sitting up in bed.

Bedchamber (n.) A chamber for a bed; an apartment form sleeping in.

Bedclothes (n. pl.) Blankets, sheets, coverlets, etc., for a bed.

Bedcord (n.) A cord or rope interwoven in a bedstead so as to support the bed.

Bedded (a.) Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arranged in a bed or beds.

Bedding (n.) A bed and its furniture; the materials of a bed, whether for man or beast; bedclothes; litter.

Bedding (n.) The state or position of beds and layers.

Bede (v. t.) To pray; also, to offer; to proffer.

Bede (n.) A kind of pickax.

Bedecked (imp. & p. p.) of Bedeck

Bedecking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedeck

Bedeck (v. t.) To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace.

Bedeguar (n.) Alt. of Bedegar

Bedegar (n.) A gall produced on rosebushes, esp. on the sweetbrier or eglantine, by a puncture from the ovipositor of a gallfly (Rhodites rosae). It was once supposed to have medicinal properties.

Bedehouse (n.) Same as Beadhouse.

Bedel (n.) Alt. of Bedell

Bedell (n.) Same as Beadle.

Bedelry (n.) Beadleship.

Beden (n.) The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana). It is probably the wild goat of the Bible.

Bedesman (n.) Same as Beadsman.

Bedevilled (imp. & p. p.) of Bedevil

Bedeviling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedevil

Bedevilling () of Bedevil

Bedevil (v. t.) To throw into utter disorder and confusion, as if by the agency of evil spirits; to bring under diabolical influence; to torment.

Bedevil (v. t.) To spoil; to corrupt.

Bedevilment (n.) The state of being bedeviled; bewildering confusion; vexatious trouble.

Bedewed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedew

Bedewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedew

Bedew (v. t.) To moisten with dew, or as with dew.

Bedewer (n.) One who, or that which, bedews.

Bedewy (a.) Moist with dew; dewy.

Bedfellow (n.) One who lies with another in the same bed; a person who shares one's couch.

Bedfere Bedphere (n.) A bedfellow.

Bedgown (n.) A nightgown.

Bedight (p. p.) of Bedight

Bedighted () of Bedight

Bedight (v. t.) To bedeck; to array or equip; to adorn.

Bedimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedim

Bedimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedim

Bedim (v. t.) To make dim; to obscure or darken.

Bedizen (v. t.) To dress or adorn tawdrily or with false taste.

Bedizenment (n.) That which bedizens; the act of dressing, or the state of being dressed, tawdrily.

Bedkey (n.) An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead.

Bedlam (n.) A place appropriated to the confinement and care of the insane; a madhouse.

Bedlam (n.) An insane person; a lunatic; a madman.

Bedlam (n.) Any place where uproar and confusion prevail.

Bedlam (a.) Belonging to, or fit for, a madhouse.

Bedlamite (n.) An inhabitant of a madhouse; a madman.

Bedmaker (n.) One who makes beds.

Bed-molding (n.) Alt. of Bed-moulding

Bed-moulding (n.) The molding of a cornice immediately below the corona.

Bedote (v. t.) To cause to dote; to deceive.

Bedouin (n.) One of the nomadic Arabs who live in tents, and are scattered over Arabia, Syria, and northern Africa, esp. in the deserts.

Bedouin (a.) Pertaining to the Bedouins; nomad.

Bedpan (n.) A pan for warming beds.

Bedpan (n.) A shallow chamber vessel, so constructed that it can be used by a sick person in bed.

Bedphere (n.) See Bedfere.

Bedpiece (n.) Alt. of Bedplate

Bedplate (n.) The foundation framing or piece, by which the other parts are supported and held in place; the bed; -- called also baseplate and soleplate.

Bedpost (n.) One of the four standards that support a bedstead or the canopy over a bedstead.

Bedpost (n.) Anciently, a post or pin on each side of the bed to keep the clothes from falling off. See Bedstaff.

Bedquilt (n.) A quilt for a bed; a coverlet.

Bedrabble (v. t.) To befoul with rain and mud; to drabble.

Bedraggled (imp. & p. p.) of Bedraggle

Bedraggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedraggle

Bedraggle (v. t.) To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, are suffered to drag in dust, mud, etc.

Bedrenched (imp. & p. p.) of Bedrench

Bedrenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedrench

Bedrench (v. t.) To drench; to saturate with moisture; to soak.

Bedribble (v. t.) To dribble upon.

Bedrid (v. i.) Alt. of Bedridden

Bedridden (v. i.) Confined to the bed by sickness or infirmity.

Bedright Bedrite (n.) The duty or privilege of the marriage bed.

Bedrizzle (v. t.) To drizzle upon.

Bed rock () The solid rock underlying superficial formations. Also Fig.

Bedroom (n.) A room or apartment intended or used for a bed; a lodging room.

Bedroom (n.) Room in a bed.

Bedrop (v. t.) To sprinkle, as with drops.

Bedrug (v. t.) To drug abundantly or excessively.

Bed screw () A form of jack screw for lifting large bodies, and assisting in launching.

Bed screw () A long screw formerly used to fasten a bedpost to one of the adjacent side pieces.

Bedside (n.) The side of a bed.

Bedsite (n.) A recess in a room for a bed.

Bedsore (n.) A sore on the back or hips caused by lying for a long time in bed.

Bedspread (n.) A bedquilt; a counterpane; a coverlet.

Bedstaves (pl. ) of Bedstaff

Bedstaff (n.) A wooden pin stuck anciently on the sides of the bedstead, to hold the clothes from slipping on either side.

Bedstead (n.) A framework for supporting a bed.

Bed steps () Steps for mounting a bed of unusual height.

Bedstock (n.) The front or the back part of the frame of a bedstead.

Bedstraw (n.) Straw put into a bed.

Bedstraw (n.) A genus of slender herbs, usually with square stems, whorled leaves, and small white flowers.

Bedswerver (n.) One who swerves from and is unfaithful to the marriage vow.

Bedtick (n.) A tick or bag made of cloth, used for inclosing the materials of a bed.

Bedtime (n.) The time to go to bed.

Beducked (imp. & p. p.) of Beduck

Beduck (v. t.) To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse.

Beduin (n.) See Bedouin.

Bedunged (imp. & p. p.) of Bedung

Bedung (v. t.) To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile, literally or figuratively.

Bedust (v. t.) To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust.

Bedward (adv.) Towards bed.

Bedwarfed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedwarf

Bedwarf (v. t.) To make a dwarf of; to stunt or hinder the growth of; to dwarf.

Bedyed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedye

Bedyeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedye

Bedye (v. t.) To dye or stain.

Bee () p. p. of Be; -- used for been.

Bee (n.) An insect of the order Hymenoptera, and family Apidae (the honeybees), or family Andrenidae (the solitary bees.) See Honeybee.

Bee (n.) A neighborly gathering of people who engage in united labor for the benefit of an individual or family; as, a quilting bee; a husking bee; a raising bee.

Bee (n.) Pieces of hard wood bolted to the sides of the bowsprit, to reeve the fore-topmast stays through; -- called also bee blocks.

Beebread (n.) A brown, bitter substance found in some of the cells of honeycomb. It is made chiefly from the pollen of flowers, which is collected by bees as food for their young.

Beeches (pl. ) of Beech

Beech (n.) A tree of the genus Fagus.

Beechen (a.) Consisting, or made, of the wood or bark of the beech; belonging to the beech.

Beechnut (n.) The nut of the beech tree.

Beech tree () The beech.

Beechy (a.) Of or relating to beeches.

Bee-eater (n.) A bird of the genus Merops, that feeds on bees. The European species (M. apiaster) is remarkable for its brilliant colors.

Bee-eater (n.) An African bird of the genus Rhinopomastes.

Beef (n.) An animal of the genus Bos, especially the common species, B. taurus, including the bull, cow, and ox, in their full grown state; esp., an ox or cow fattened for food.

Beef (n.) The flesh of an ox, or cow, or of any adult bovine animal, when slaughtered for food.

Beef (n.) Applied colloquially to human flesh.

Beef (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef.

Beefeater (n.) One who eats beef; hence, a large, fleshy person.

Beefeater (n.) One of the yeomen of the guard, in England.

Beefeater (n.) An African bird of the genus Buphaga, which feeds on the larvae of botflies hatched under the skin of oxen, antelopes, etc. Two species are known.

Beefsteak (n.) A steak of beef; a slice of beef broiled or suitable for broiling.

Beef-witted (n.) Stupid; dull.

Beefwood (n.) An Australian tree (Casuarina), and its red wood, used for cabinetwork; also, the trees Stenocarpus salignus of New South Wales, and Banksia compar of Queensland.

Beefy (a.) Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef; fleshy.

Beehive (n.) A hive for a swarm of bees. Also used figuratively.

Beehouse (n.) A house for bees; an apiary.

Bee larkspur () (Bot.) See Larkspur.

Beeld (n.) Same as Beild.

Bee line () The shortest line from one place to another, like that of a bee to its hive when loaded with honey; an air line.

Beelzebub (n.) The title of a heathen deity to whom the Jews ascribed the sovereignty of the evil spirits; hence, the Devil or a devil. See Baal.

Beem (n.) A trumpet.

Beemaster (n.) One who keeps bees.

Been () The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr. tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee.

Beer (n.) A fermented liquor made from any malted grain, but commonly from barley malt, with hops or some other substance to impart a bitter flavor.

Beer (n.) A fermented extract of the roots and other parts of various plants, as spruce, ginger, sassafras, etc.

Beeregar (n.) Sour beer.

Beerhouse (n.) A house where malt liquors are sold; an alehouse.

Beeriness (n.) Beery condition.

Beery (a.) Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin.

Beestings (n.) Same as Biestings.

Beeswax (n.) The wax secreted by bees, and of which their cells are constructed.

Beeswing (n.) The second crust formed in port and some other wines after long keeping. It consists of pure, shining scales of tartar, supposed to resemble the wing of a bee.

Beet (n.) A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edible root the first year and seed the second year.

Beet (n.) The root of plants of the genus Beta, different species and varieties of which are used for the table, for feeding stock, or in making sugar.

Beete (v. t.) Alt. of Bete

Bete (v. t.) To mend; to repair.

Bete (v. t.) To renew or enkindle (a fire).

Beetle (v. t.) A heavy mallet, used to drive wedges, beat pavements, etc.

Beetle (v. t.) A machine in which fabrics are subjected to a hammering process while passing over rollers, as in cotton mills; -- called also beetling machine.

Beetled (imp. & p. p.) of Beetle

Beetling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beetle

Beetle (v. t.) To beat with a heavy mallet.

Beetle (v. t.) To finish by subjecting to a hammering process in a beetle or beetling machine; as, to beetle cotton goods.

Beetle (v. t.) Any insect of the order Coleoptera, having four wings, the outer pair being stiff cases for covering the others when they are folded up. See Coleoptera.

Beetle (v. i.) To extend over and beyond the base or support; to overhang; to jut.

Beetle brow () An overhanging brow.

Beetle-browed () Having prominent, overhanging brows; hence, lowering or sullen.

Beetlehead (n.) A stupid fellow; a blockhead.

Beetlehead (n.) The black-bellied plover, or bullhead (Squatarola helvetica). See Plover.

Beetle-headed (a.) Dull; stupid.

Beetlestock (n.) The handle of a beetle.

Beet radish () Same as Beetrave.

Beetrave (n.) The common beet (Beta vulgaris).

Beeve (n.) A beef; a beef creature.

Beeves (n.) plural of Beef, the animal.

Befell (imp.) of Befall

Befallen (p. p.) of Befall

Befalling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befall

Befall (v. t.) To happen to.

Befall (v. i.) To come to pass; to happen.

Befitted (imp. & p. p.) of Befit

Befitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befit

Befit (v. t.) To be suitable to; to suit; to become.

Befitting (a.) Suitable; proper; becoming; fitting.

Befittingly (adv.) In a befitting manner; suitably.

Beflatter (v. t.) To flatter excessively.

Beflower (v. t.) To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers.

Befogged (imp. & p. p.) of Befog

Befogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befog

Befog (v. t.) To involve in a fog; -- mostly as a participle or part. adj.

Befog (v. t.) Hence: To confuse; to mystify.

Befooled (imp. & p. p.) of Befool

Befooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befool

Befool (v. t.) To fool; to delude or lead into error; to infatuate; to deceive.

Befool (v. t.) To cause to behave like a fool; to make foolish.

Before (prep.) In front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand before the fire; before the house.

Before (prep.) Preceding in time; earlier than; previously to; anterior to the time when; -- sometimes with the additional idea of purpose; in order that.

Before (prep.) An advance of; farther onward, in place or time.

Before (prep.) Prior or preceding in dignity, order, rank, right, or worth; rather than.

Before (prep.) In presence or sight of; face to face with; facing.

Before (prep.) Under the cognizance or jurisdiction of.

Before (prep.) Open for; free of access to; in the power of.

Before (adv.) On the fore part; in front, or in the direction of the front; -- opposed to in the rear.

Before (adv.) In advance.

Before (adv.) In time past; previously; already.

Before (adv.) Earlier; sooner than; until then.

Beforehand (adv.) In a state of anticipation ore preoccupation; in advance; -- often followed by with.

Beforehand (adv.) By way of preparation, or preliminary; previously; aforetime.

Beforehand (a.) In comfortable circumstances as regards property; forehanded.

Beforetime (adv.) Formerly; aforetime.

Befortune (v. t.) To befall.

Befouled (imp. & p. p.) of Befoul

Befouling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befoul

Befoul (a.) To make foul; to soil.

Befoul (a.) To entangle or run against so as to impede motion.

Befriended (imp. & p. p.) of Befriend

Befriending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befriend

Befriend (v. t.) To act as a friend to; to favor; to aid, benefit, or countenance.

Befriendment (n.) Act of befriending.

Befrill (v. t.) To furnish or deck with a frill.

Befringe (v. t.) To furnish with a fringe; to form a fringe upon; to adorn as with fringe.

Befuddled (imp. & p. p.) of Befuddle

Befuddle (v. t.) To becloud and confuse, as with liquor.

Beg (n.) A title of honor in Turkey and in some other parts of the East; a bey.

Begged (imp. & p. p.) of Beg

Begging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beg

Beg (v. t.) To ask earnestly for; to entreat or supplicate for; to beseech.

Beg (v. t.) To ask for as a charity, esp. to ask for habitually or from house to house.

Beg (v. t.) To make petition to; to entreat; as, to beg a person to grant a favor.

Beg (v. t.) To take for granted; to assume without proof.

Beg (v. t.) To ask to be appointed guardian for, or to ask to have a guardian appointed for.

Beg (v. i.) To ask alms or charity, especially to ask habitually by the wayside or from house to house; to live by asking alms.

Bega (n.) See Bigha.

Begemmed (imp. & p. p.) of Begem

Begemming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begem

Begem (v. t.) To adorn with gems, or as with gems.

Begot (imp.) of Beget

Begat () of Beget

Begot (p. p.) of Beget

Begotten () of Beget

Begetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beget

Beget (v. t.) To procreate, as a father or sire; to generate; -- commonly said of the father.

Beget (v. t.) To get (with child.)

Beget (v. t.) To produce as an effect; to cause to exist.

Begetter (n.) One who begets; a father.

Beggable (a.) Capable of being begged.

Beggar (n.) One who begs; one who asks or entreats earnestly, or with humility; a petitioner.

Beggar (n.) One who makes it his business to ask alms.

Beggar (n.) One who is dependent upon others for support; -- a contemptuous or sarcastic use.

Beggar (n.) One who assumes in argument what he does not prove.

Beggared (imp. & p. p.) of Beggar

Beggaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beggar

Beggar (v. t.) To reduce to beggary; to impoverish; as, he had beggared himself.

Beggar (v. t.) To cause to seem very poor and inadequate.

Beggarhood (n.) The condition of being a beggar; also, the class of beggars.

Beggarism (n.) Beggary.

Beggarliness (n.) The quality or state of being beggarly; meanness.

Beggarly (a.) In the condition of, or like, a beggar; suitable for a beggar; extremely indigent; poverty-stricken; mean; poor; contemptible.

Beggarly (a.) Produced or occasioned by beggary.

Beggarly (adv.) In an indigent, mean, or despicable manner; in the manner of a beggar.

Beggar's lice () The prickly fruit or seed of certain plants (as some species of Echinospermum and Cynoglossum) which cling to the clothing of those who brush by them.

Beggar's ticks () The bur marigold (Bidens) and its achenes, which are armed with barbed awns, and adhere to clothing and fleeces with unpleasant tenacity.

Beggary (n.) The act of begging; the state of being a beggar; mendicancy; extreme poverty.

Beggary (n.) Beggarly appearance.

Beggary (a.) Beggarly.

Beggestere (n.) A beggar.

Beghard (n.) Alt. of Beguard

Beguard (n.) One of an association of religious laymen living in imitation of the Beguines. They arose in the thirteenth century, were afterward subjected to much persecution, and were suppressed by Innocent X. in 1650. Called also Beguins.

Begilded (imp. & p. p.) of Begild

Begilt () of Begild

Begild (v. t.) To gild.

Began (imp. & p. p.) of Begin

Begun () of Begin

Beginning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begin

Begin (v. i.) To have or commence an independent or first existence; to take rise; to commence.

Begin (v. i.) To do the first act or the first part of an action; to enter upon or commence something new, as a new form or state of being, or course of action; to take the first step; to start.

Begin (v. t.) To enter on; to commence.

Begin (v. t.) To trace or lay the foundation of; to make or place a beginning of.

Begin (n.) Beginning.

Beginner (n.) One who begins or originates anything. Specifically: A young or inexperienced practitioner or student; a tyro.

Beginning (n.) The act of doing that which begins anything; commencement of an action, state, or space of time; entrance into being or upon a course; the first act, effort, or state of a succession of acts or states.

Beginning (n.) That which begins or originates something; the first cause; origin; source.

Beginning (n.) That which is begun; a rudiment or element.

Beginning (n.) Enterprise.

Begirt (imp.) of Begird

Begirded () of Begird

Begirt (p. p.) of Begird

Begirding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begird

Begird (v. t.) To bind with a band or girdle; to gird.

Begird (v. t.) To surround as with a band; to encompass.

Begirdle (v. t.) To surround as with a girdle.

Begirt (v. t.) To encompass; to begird.

Beglerbeg (n.) The governor of a province of the Ottoman empire, next in dignity to the grand vizier.

Begnawed (p. p.) of Begnaw

Begnawn () of Begnaw

Begnaw (v. t.) To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode.

Begodded (imp. & p. p.) of Begod

Begod (v. t.) To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify.

Begone (interj.) Go away; depart; get you gone.

Begone (p. p.) Surrounded; furnished; beset; environed (as in woe-begone).

Begonia (n.) A genus of plants, mostly of tropical America, many species of which are grown as ornamental plants. The leaves are curiously one-sided, and often exhibit brilliant colors.

Begore (v. t.) To besmear with gore.

Begot () imp. & p. p. of Beget.

Begotten () p. p. of Beget.

Begrave (v. t.) To bury; also, to engrave.

Begrease (v. t.) To soil or daub with grease or other oily matter.

Begrimed (imp. & p. p.) of Begrime

Begriming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begrime

Begrime (v. t.) To soil with grime or dirt deeply impressed or rubbed in.

Begrimer (n.) One who, or that which, begrimes.

Begrudged (imp. & p. p.) of Begrudge

Begrudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begrudge

Begrudge (v. t.) To grudge; to envy the possession of.

Beguiled (imp. & p. p.) of Beguile

Beguiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beguile

Beguile (v. t.) To delude by guile, artifice, or craft; to deceive or impose on, as by a false statement; to lure.

Beguile (v. t.) To elude, or evade by craft; to foil.

Beguile (v. t.) To cause the time of to pass without notice; to relieve the tedium or weariness of; to while away; to divert.

Beguilement (n.) The act of beguiling, or the state of being beguiled.

Beguiler (n.) One who, or that which, beguiles.

Beguiling (a.) Alluring by guile; deluding; misleading; diverting.

Beguin (n.) See Beghard.

Beguinage (n.) A collection of small houses surrounded by a wall and occupied by a community of Beguines.

Beguine (n.) A woman belonging to one of the religious and charitable associations or communities in the Netherlands, and elsewhere, whose members live in beguinages and are not bound by perpetual vows.

Begum (n.) In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank.

Begun () p. p. of Begin.

Behalf (n.) Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support; defense; vindication.

Behappen (v. t.) To happen to.

Behaved (imp. & p. p.) of Behave

Behaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Behave

Behave (v. t.) To manage or govern in point of behavior; to discipline; to handle; to restrain.

Behave (v. t.) To carry; to conduct; to comport; to manage; to bear; -- used reflexively.

Behave (v. i.) To act; to conduct; to bear or carry one's self; as, to behave well or ill.

Behavior (n.) Manner of behaving, whether good or bad; mode of conducting one's self; conduct; deportment; carriage; -- used also of inanimate objects; as, the behavior of a ship in a storm; the behavior of the magnetic needle.

Beheaded (imp. & p. p.) of Behead

Beheading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Behead

Behead (v. t.) To sever the head from; to take off the head of.

Beheadal (n.) Beheading.

Beheld () imp. & p. p. of Behold.

Behemoth (n.) An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15-24.

Behen (n.) Alt. of Behn

Behn (n.) The Centaurea behen, or saw-leaved centaury.

Behn (n.) The Cucubalus behen, or bladder campion, now called Silene inflata.

Behn (n.) The Statice limonium, or sea lavender.

Behest (n.) That which is willed or ordered; a command; a mandate; an injunction.

Behest (n.) A vow; a promise.

Behest (v. t.) To vow.

Behete (v. t.) See Behight.

Behight (imp.) of Behight

Behight (p. p.) of Behight

Behoten () of Behight

Behight (v.) To promise; to vow.

Behight (v.) To give in trust; to commit; to intrust.

Behight (v.) To adjudge; to assign by authority.

Behight (v.) To mean, or intend.

Behight (v.) To consider or esteem to be; to declare to be.

Behight (v.) To call; to name; to address.

Behight (v.) To command; to order.

Behight (n.) A vow; a promise.

Behind (a.) On the side opposite the front or nearest part; on the back side of; at the back of; on the other side of; as, behind a door; behind a hill.

Behind (a.) Left after the departure of, whether this be by removing to a distance or by death.

Behind (a.) Left a distance by, in progress of improvement Hence: Inferior to in dignity, rank, knowledge, or excellence, or in any achievement.

Behind (adv.) At the back part; in the rear.

Behind (adv.) Toward the back part or rear; backward; as, to look behind.

Behind (adv.) Not yet brought forward, produced, or exhibited to view; out of sight; remaining.

Behind (adv.) Backward in time or order of succession; past.

Behind (adv.) After the departure of another; as, to stay behind.

Behind (n.) The backside; the rump.

Behindhand (adv. & a.) In arrears financially; in a state where expenditures have exceeded the receipt of funds.

Behindhand (adv. & a.) In a state of backwardness, in respect to what is seasonable or appropriate, or as to what should have been accomplished; not equally forward with some other person or thing; dilatory; backward; late; tardy; as, behindhand in studies or in work.

Behither (prep.) On this side of.

Beheld (imp. & p. p.) of Behold

Beholden (p. p.) of Behold

Beholding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Behold

Behold (v. t.) To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard with the eyes.

Behold (v. i.) To direct the eyes to, or fix them upon, an object; to look; to see.

Beholden (p. a.) Obliged; bound in gratitude; indebted.

Beholder (n.) One who beholds; a spectator.

Beholding (a.) Obliged; beholden.

Beholding (n.) The act of seeing; sight; also, that which is beheld.

Beholdingness (n.) The state of being obliged or beholden.

Behoof (v. t.) Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use.

Behoovable (a.) Supplying need; profitable; advantageous.

Behooved (imp. & p. p.) of Behoove

Behooving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Behoove

Behoove (v. t.) To be necessary for; to be fit for; to be meet for, with respect to necessity, duty, or convenience; -- mostly used impersonally.

Behoove (v. i.) To be necessary, fit, or suitable; to befit; to belong as due.

Behoove (n.) Advantage; behoof.

Behooveful (a.) Advantageous; useful; profitable.

Behove (v.) and derivatives. See Behoove, &c.

Behovely (a. & adv.) Useful, or usefully.

Behowl (v. t.) To howl at.

Beige (n.) Debeige.

Beild (n.) A place of shelter; protection; refuge.

Being (p. pr.) Existing.

Being (n.) Existence, as opposed to nonexistence; state or sphere of existence.

Being (n.) That which exists in any form, whether it be material or spiritual, actual or ideal; living existence, as distinguished from a thing without life; as, a human being; spiritual beings.

Being (n.) Lifetime; mortal existence.

Being (n.) An abode; a cottage.

Being (adv.) Since; inasmuch as.

Bejade (v. t.) To jade or tire.

Bejape (v. t.) To jape; to laugh at; to deceive.

Bejaundice (v. t.) To infect with jaundice.

Bejeweled (imp. & p. p.) of Bejewel

Bejewelled () of Bejewel

Bejeweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bejewel

Bejewelling () of Bejewel

Bejewel (v. t.) To ornament with a jewel or with jewels; to spangle.

Bejumble (v. t.) To jumble together.

Bekah (n.) Half a shekel.

Beknave (v. t.) To call knave.

Beknow (v. t.) To confess; to acknowledge.

Bel (n.) The Babylonian name of the god known among the Hebrews as Baal. See Baal.

Belabored (imp. & p. p.) of Belabor

Belaboring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belabor

Belabor (v. t.) To ply diligently; to work carefully upon.

Belabor (v. t.) To beat soundly; to cudgel.

Bel-accoyle (n.) A kind or favorable reception or salutation.

Belaced (imp. & p. p.) of Belace

Belace (v. t.) To fasten, as with a lace or cord.

Belace (v. t.) To cover or adorn with lace.

Belace (v. t.) To beat with a strap. See Lace.

Belam (v. t.) To beat or bang.

Belamour (n.) A lover.

Belamour (n.) A flower, but of what kind is unknown.

Belamy (n.) Good friend; dear friend.

Belated (imp. & p. p.) of Belate

Belating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belate

Belate (v. t.) To retard or make too late.

Belated (a.) Delayed beyond the usual time; too late; overtaken by night; benighted.

Belaud (v. t.) To laud or praise greatly.

Belaid (imp. & p. p.) of Belay

Belayed () of Belay

Belaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belay

Belay (v. t.) To lay on or cover; to adorn.

Belay (v. t.) To make fast, as a rope, by taking several turns with it round a pin, cleat, or kevel.

Belay (v. t.) To lie in wait for with a view to assault. Hence: to block up or obstruct.

Belaying pin () A strong pin in the side of a vessel, or by the mast, round which ropes are wound when they are fastened or belayed.

Belched (imp. & p. p.) of Belch

Belching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belch

Belch (v. i.) To eject or throw up from the stomach with violence; to eruct.

Belch (v. i.) To eject violently from within; to cast forth; to emit; to give vent to; to vent.

Belch (v. i.) To eject wind from the stomach through the mouth; to eructate.

Belch (v. i.) To issue with spasmodic force or noise.

Belch (n.) The act of belching; also, that which is belched; an eructation.

Belch (n.) Malt liquor; -- vulgarly so called as causing eructation.

Belcher (n.) One who, or that which, belches.

Beldam (n.) Alt. of Beldame

Beldame (n.) Grandmother; -- corresponding to belsire.

Beldame (n.) An old woman in general; especially, an ugly old woman; a hag.

Beleaguered (imp. & p. p.) of Beleaguer

Beleaguering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beleaguer

Beleaguer (v. t.) To surround with an army so as to preclude escape; to besiege; to blockade.

Beleaguerer (n.) One who beleaguers.

Beleft (imp. & p. p.) of Beleave

Beleave (v. t. & i.) To leave or to be left.

Belectured (imp. & p. p.) of Belecture

Belecturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belecture

Belecture (v. t.) To vex with lectures; to lecture frequently.

Belee (v. t.) To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind.

Belemnite (n.) A conical calcareous fossil, tapering to a point at the lower extremity, with a conical cavity at the other end, where it is ordinarily broken; but when perfect it contains a small chambered cone, called the phragmocone, prolonged, on one side, into a delicate concave blade; the thunderstone. It is the internal shell of a cephalopod related to the sepia, and belonging to an extinct family. The belemnites are found in rocks of the Jurassic and Cretaceous ages.

Belepered (imp. & p. p.) of Beleper

Beleper (v. t.) To infect with leprosy.

Beaux (pl. ) of Bel-esprit

-esprits (pl. ) of Bel-esprit

Bel-esprit (n.) A fine genius, or man of wit.

Belfry (n.) A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack and defense.

Belfry (n.) A bell tower, usually attached to a church or other building, but sometimes separate; a campanile.

Belfry (n.) A room in a tower in which a bell is or may be hung; or a cupola or turret for the same purpose.

Belfry (n.) The framing on which a bell is suspended.

Belgard (n.) A sweet or loving look.

Belgian (a.) Of or pertaining to Belgium.

Belgian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Belgium.

Belgic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Belgae, a German tribe who anciently possessed the country between the Rhine, the Seine, and the ocean.

Belgic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Netherlands or to Belgium.

Belgravian (a.) Belonging to Belgravia (a fashionable quarter of London, around Pimlico), or to fashionable life; aristocratic.

Belial (n.) An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; the personification of evil.

Belibel (v. t.) To libel or traduce; to calumniate.

Belied (imp. & p. p.) of Belie

Belying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belie

Belie (n.) To show to be false; to convict of, or charge with, falsehood.

Belie (n.) To give a false representation or account of.

Belie (n.) To tell lie about; to calumniate; to slander.

Belie (n.) To mimic; to counterfeit.

Belie (n.) To fill with lies.

Belief (n.) Assent to a proposition or affirmation, or the acceptance of a fact, opinion, or assertion as real or true, without immediate personal knowledge; reliance upon word or testimony; partial or full assurance without positive knowledge or absolute certainty; persuasion; conviction; confidence; as, belief of a witness; the belief of our senses.

Belief (n.) A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith.

Belief (n.) The thing believed; the object of belief.

Belief (n.) A tenet, or the body of tenets, held by the advocates of any class of views; doctrine; creed.

Beliefful (a.) Having belief or faith.

Believable (a.) Capable of being believed; credible.

Believed (imp. & p. p.) of Believe

Believing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Believe

Believe (n.) To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority or testimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidence furnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind, or by circumstances other than personal knowledge; to regard or accept as true; to place confidence in; to think; to consider; as, to believe a person, a statement, or a doctrine.

Believe (v. i.) To have a firm persuasion, esp. of the truths of religion; to have a persuasion approaching to certainty; to exercise belief or faith.

Believe (v. i.) To think; to suppose.

Believer (n.) One who believes; one who is persuaded of the truth or reality of some doctrine, person, or thing.

Believer (n.) One who gives credit to the truth of the Scriptures, as a revelation from God; a Christian; -- in a more restricted sense, one who receives Christ as his Savior, and accepts the way of salvation unfolded in the gospel.

Believer (n.) One who was admitted to all the rights of divine worship and instructed in all the mysteries of the Christian religion, in distinction from a catechumen, or one yet under instruction.

Believing (a.) That believes; having belief.

Belight (v. t.) To illuminate.

Belike (adv.) It is likely or probably; perhaps.

Belimed (imp. & p. p.) of Belime

Belime (v. t.) To besmear or insnare with birdlime.

Belittled (imp. & p. p.) of Belittle

Belittling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belittle

Belittle (v. t.) To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in a depreciatory or contemptuous way.

Belive (a.) Forthwith; speedily; quickly.

Belk (v. t.) To vomit.

Bell (n.) A hollow metallic vessel, usually shaped somewhat like a cup with a flaring mouth, containing a clapper or tongue, and giving forth a ringing sound on being struck.

Bell (n.) A hollow perforated sphere of metal containing a loose ball which causes it to sound when moved.

Bell (n.) Anything in the form of a bell, as the cup or corol of a flower.

Bell (n.) That part of the capital of a column included between the abacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearly cylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital.

Bell (n.) The strikes of the bell which mark the time; or the time so designated.

Belled (imp. & p. p.) of Bell

Belling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bell

Bell (v. t.) To put a bell upon; as, to bell the cat.

Bell (v. t.) To make bell-mouthed; as, to bell a tube.

Bell (v. i.) To develop bells or corollas; to take the form of a bell; to blossom; as, hops bell.

Bell (v. t.) To utter by bellowing.

Bell (v. i.) To call or bellow, as the deer in rutting time; to make a bellowing sound; to roar.

Belladonna (n.) An herbaceous European plant (Atropa belladonna) with reddish bell-shaped flowers and shining black berries. The whole plant and its fruit are very poisonous, and the root and leaves are used as powerful medicinal agents. Its properties are largely due to the alkaloid atropine which it contains. Called also deadly nightshade.

Belladonna (n.) A species of Amaryllis (A. belladonna); the belladonna lily.

Bell animalcule () An infusorian of the family Vorticellidae, common in fresh-water ponds.

Bell bearer () A Brazilian leaf hopper (Bocydium tintinnabuliferum), remarkable for the four bell-shaped appendages of its thorax.

Bellbird (n.) A South American bird of the genus Casmarhincos, and family Cotingidae, of several species; the campanero.

Bellbird (n.) The Myzantha melanophrys of Australia.

Bell crank () A lever whose two arms form a right angle, or nearly a right angle, having its fulcrum at the apex of the angle. It is used in bell pulls and in changing the direction of bell wires at angles of rooms, etc., and also in machinery.

Belle (n.) A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsome lady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady.

Belled (a.) Hung with a bell or bells.

Belle-lettrist (n.) One versed in belles-lettres.

Bellerophon (n.) A genus of fossil univalve shells, believed to belong to the Heteropoda, peculiar to the Paleozoic age.

Belles-lettres (n. pl.) Polite or elegant literature; the humanities; -- used somewhat vaguely for literary works in which imagination and taste are predominant.

Belletristic (a.) Alt. of Belletristical

Belletristical (a.) Occupied with, or pertaining to, belles-lettres.

Bell-faced (a.) Having the striking surface convex; -- said of hammers.

Bellflower (n.) A plant of the genus Campanula; -- so named from its bell-shaped flowers.

Bellflower (n.) A kind of apple. The yellow bellflower is a large, yellow winter apple.

Bellibone (n.) A woman excelling both in beauty and goodness; a fair maid.

Bellic (a.) Alt. of Bellical

Bellical (a.) Of or pertaining to war; warlike; martial.

Bellicose (a.) Inclined to war or contention; warlike; pugnacious.

Bellicosely (adv.) In a bellicose manner.

Bellicous (a.) Bellicose.

Bellied (a.) Having (such) a belly; puffed out; -- used in composition; as, pot-bellied; shad-bellied.

Belligerence (n.) Alt. of Belligerency

Belligerency (n.) The quality of being belligerent; act or state of making war; warfare.

Belligerent (p. pr.) Waging war; carrying on war.

Belligerent (p. pr.) Pertaining, or tending, to war; of or relating to belligerents; as, a belligerent tone; belligerent rights.

Belligerent (n.) A nation or state recognized as carrying on war; a person engaged in warfare.

Belligerently (adv.) In a belligerent manner; hostilely.

Belling (n.) A bellowing, as of a deer in rutting time.

Bellipotent (p. pr.) Mighty in war; armipotent.

Bell jar () A glass vessel, varying in size, open at the bottom and closed at the top like a bell, and having a knob or handle at the top for lifting it. It is used for a great variety of purposes; as, with the air pump, and for holding gases, also for keeping the dust from articles exposed to view.

Bellman (n.) A man who rings a bell, especially to give notice of anything in the streets. Formerly, also, a night watchman who called the hours.

Bell metal () A hard alloy or bronze, consisting usually of about three parts of copper to one of tin; -- used for making bells.

Bell-mouthed (a.) Expanding at the mouth; as, a bell-mouthed gun.

Bellon (n.) Lead colic.

Bellona (n.) The goddess of war.

Bellowed (imp. & p. p.) of Bellow

Bellowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bellow

Bellow (v.) To make a hollow, loud noise, as an enraged bull.

Bellow (v.) To bowl; to vociferate; to clamor.

Bellow (v.) To roar; as the sea in a tempest, or as the wind when violent; to make a loud, hollow, continued sound.

Bellow (v. t.) To emit with a loud voice; to shout; -- used with out.

Bellow (n.) A loud resounding outcry or noise, as of an enraged bull; a roar.

Bellower (n.) One who, or that which, bellows.

Bellows (n. sing. & pl.) An instrument, utensil, or machine, which, by alternate expansion and contraction, or by rise and fall of the top, draws in air through a valve and expels it through a tube for various purposes, as blowing fires, ventilating mines, or filling the pipes of an organ with wind.

Bellows fish () A European fish (Centriscus scolopax), distinguished by a long tubular snout, like the pipe of a bellows; -- called also trumpet fish, and snipe fish.

Bell pepper () A species of Capsicum, or Guinea pepper (C. annuum). It is the red pepper of the gardens.

Bell-shaped (a.) Having the shape of a wide-mouthed bell; campanulate.

Belluine (a.) Pertaining to, or like, a beast; brutal.

Bellwether (n.) A wether, or sheep, which leads the flock, with a bell on his neck.

Bellwether (n.) Hence: A leader.

Bellwort (n.) A genus of plants (Uvularia) with yellowish bell-shaped flowers.

Bellies (pl. ) of Belly

Belly (n.) That part of the human body which extends downward from the breast to the thighs, and contains the bowels, or intestines; the abdomen.

Belly (n.) The under part of the body of animals, corresponding to the human belly.

Belly (n.) The womb.

Belly (n.) The part of anything which resembles the human belly in protuberance or in cavity; the innermost part; as, the belly of a flask, muscle, sail, ship.

Belly (n.) The hollow part of a curved or bent timber, the convex part of which is the back.

Bellied (imp. & p. p.) of Belly

Bellying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belly

Belly (v. t.) To cause to swell out; to fill.

Belly (v. i.) To swell and become protuberant, like the belly; to bulge.

Bellyache (n.) Pain in the bowels; colic.

Bellyband (n.) A band that passes under the belly of a horse and holds the saddle or harness in place; a girth.

Bellyband (n.) A band of flannel or other cloth about the belly.

Bellyband (n.) A band of canvas, to strengthen a sail.

Bellybound (a.) Costive; constipated.

Bellycheat (n.) An apron or covering for the front of the person.

Bellycheer (n.) Good cheer; viands.

Bellycheer (v. i.) To revel; to feast.

Bellyful (n.) As much as satisfies the appetite. Hence: A great abundance; more than enough.

Belly-god (n.) One whose great pleasure it is to gratify his appetite; a glutton; an epicure.

Belly-pinched (a.) Pinched with hunger; starved.

Belocked (imp. & p. p.) of Belock

Belock (v. t.) To lock, or fasten as with a lock.

Belomancy (n.) A kind of divination anciently practiced by means of marked arrows drawn at random from a bag or quiver, the marks on the arrows drawn being supposed to foreshow the future.

Belonged (imp. & p. p.) of Belong

Belonging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belong

Belong (v. i.) To be the property of; as, Jamaica belongs to Great Britain.

Belong (v. i.) To be a part of, or connected with; to be appendant or related; to owe allegiance or service.

Belong (v. i.) To be the concern or proper business or function of; to appertain to.

Belong (v. i.) To be suitable for; to be due to.

Belong (v. i.) To be native to, or an inhabitant of; esp. to have a legal residence, settlement, or inhabitancy, whether by birth or operation of law, so as to be entitled to maintenance by the parish or town.

Belong (v. t.) To be deserved by.

Belonging (n.) That which belongs to one; that which pertains to one; hence, goods or effects.

Belonging (n.) That which is connected with a principal or greater thing; an appendage; an appurtenance.

Belonging (n.) Family; relations; household.

Belonite (n.) Minute acicular or dendritic crystalline forms sometimes observed in glassy volcanic rocks.

Belooche Beloochee (a.) Of or pertaining to Beloochistan, or to its inhabitants.

Belooche Beloochee (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Beloochistan.

Belord (v. t.) To act the lord over.

Belord (v. t.) To address by the title of lord.

Beloved (imp. & p. p.) of Belove

Belove (v. t.) To love.

Beloved (p. p. & a.) Greatly loved; dear to the heart.

Beloved (n.) One greatly loved.

Below (prep.) Under, or lower in place; beneath not so high; as, below the moon; below the knee.

Below (prep.) Inferior to in rank, excellence, dignity, value, amount, price, etc.; lower in quality.

Below (prep.) Unworthy of; unbefitting; beneath.

Below (adv.) In a lower place, with respect to any object; in a lower room; beneath.

Below (adv.) On the earth, as opposed to the heavens.

Below (adv.) In hell, or the regions of the dead.

Below (adv.) In court or tribunal of inferior jurisdiction; as, at the trial below.

Below (adv.) In some part or page following.

Belowt (v. t.) To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to.

Belsire (n.) A grandfather, or ancestor.

Belswagger (n.) A lewd man; also, a bully.

Belt (n.) That which engirdles a person or thing; a band or girdle; as, a lady's belt; a sword belt.

Belt (n.) That which restrains or confines as a girdle.

Belt (n.) Anything that resembles a belt, or that encircles or crosses like a belt; a strip or stripe; as, a belt of trees; a belt of sand.

Belt (n.) Same as Band, n., 2. A very broad band is more properly termed a belt.

Belt (n.) One of certain girdles or zones on the surface of the planets Jupiter and Saturn, supposed to be of the nature of clouds.

Belt (n.) A narrow passage or strait; as, the Great Belt and the Lesser Belt, leading to the Baltic Sea.

Belt (n.) A token or badge of knightly rank.

Belt (n.) A band of leather, or other flexible substance, passing around two wheels, and communicating motion from one to the other.

Belt (n.) A band or stripe, as of color, round any organ; or any circular ridge or series of ridges.

Belted (imp. & p. p.) of Belt

Belting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belt

Belt (v. t.) To encircle with, or as with, a belt; to encompass; to surround.

Belt (v. t.) To shear, as the buttocks and tails of sheep.

Beltane (n.) The first day of May (Old Style).

Beltane (n.) A festival of the heathen Celts on the first day of May, in the observance of which great bonfires were kindled. It still exists in a modified form in some parts of Scotland and Ireland.

Belted (a.) Encircled by, or secured with, a belt; as, a belted plaid; girt with a belt, as an honorary distinction; as, a belted knight; a belted earl.

Belted (a.) Marked with a band or circle; as, a belted stalk.

Belted (a.) Worn in, or suspended from, the belt.

Beltein (n.) Alt. of Beltin

Beltin (n.) See Beltane.

Belting (n.) The material of which belts for machinery are made; also, belts, taken collectively.

Beluga (n.) A cetacean allied to the dolphins.

Beluted (imp. & p. p.) of Belute

Beluting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belute

Belute (v. t.) To bespatter, as with mud.

Belvedere (n.) A small building, or a part of a building, more or less open, constructed in a place commanding a fine prospect.

Belzebuth (n.) A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Brazil.

Bema (n.) A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly.

Bema (n.) That part of an early Christian church which was reserved for the higher clergy; the inner or eastern part of the chancel.

Bema (n.) Erroneously: A pulpit.

Bemad (v. t.) To make mad.

Bemangle (v. t.) To mangle; to tear asunder.

Bemask (v. t.) To mask; to conceal.

Bemaster (v. t.) To master thoroughly.

Bemaul (v. t.) To maul or beat severely; to bruise.

Bemaze (v. t.) To bewilder.

Bemean (v. t.) To make mean; to lower.

Bemet (imp. & p. p.) of Bemeet

Bemeeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bemeet

Bemeet (v. t.) To meet.

Bemete (v. t.) To mete.

Bemingle (v. t.) To mingle; to mix.

Bemired (imp. & p. p.) of Bemire

Bemiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bemire

Bemire (v. t.) To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil by passing through mud or dirt.

Bemist (v. t.) To envelop in mist.

Bemoaned (imp. & p. p.) of Bemoan

Bemoaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bemoan

Bemoan (v. t.) To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; to lament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with.

Bemoaner (n.) One who bemoans.

Bemock (v. t.) To mock; to ridicule.

Bemoil (v. t.) To soil or encumber with mire and dirt.

Bemol (n.) The sign /; the same as B flat.

Bemonster (v. t.) To make monstrous or like a monster.

Bemourn (v. t.) To mourn over.

Bemuddle (v. t.) To muddle; to stupefy or bewilder; to confuse.

Bemuffle (v. t.) To cover as with a muffler; to wrap up.

Bemuse (v. t.) To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor.

Ben () Alt. of Ben nut

Ben nut () The seed of one or more species of moringa; as, oil of ben. See Moringa.

Ben (adv. & prep.) Within; in; in or into the interior; toward the inner apartment.

Ben (adv.) The inner or principal room in a hut or house of two rooms; -- opposed to but, the outer apartment.

Ben () An old form of the pl. indic. pr. of Be.

Benamed (p. p.) of Bename

Benempt () of Bename

Bename (v. t.) To promise; to name.

Benches (pl. ) of Bench

Bench (n.) A long seat, differing from a stool in its greater length.

Bench (n.) A long table at which mechanics and other work; as, a carpenter's bench.

Bench (n.) The seat where judges sit in court.

Bench (n.) The persons who sit as judges; the court; as, the opinion of the full bench. See King's Bench.

Bench (n.) A collection or group of dogs exhibited to the public; -- so named because the animals are usually placed on benches or raised platforms.

Bench (n.) A conformation like a bench; a long stretch of flat ground, or a kind of natural terrace, near a lake or river.

Benched (imp. & p. p.) of Bench

Benching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bench

Bench (v. t.) To furnish with benches.

Bench (v. t.) To place on a bench or seat of honor.

Bench (v. i.) To sit on a seat of justice.

Bencher (n.) One of the senior and governing members of an Inn of Court.

Bencher (n.) An alderman of a corporation.

Bencher (n.) A member of a court or council.

Bencher (n.) One who frequents the benches of a tavern; an idler.

Bench warrant () A process issued by a presiding judge or by a court against a person guilty of some contempt, or indicted for some crime; -- so called in distinction from a justice's warrant.

Bended (imp. & p. p.) of Bend

Bent () of Bend

Bending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bend

Bend (v. t.) To strain or move out of a straight line; to crook by straining; to make crooked; to curve; to make ready for use by drawing into a curve; as, to bend a bow; to bend the knee.

Bend (v. t.) To turn toward some certain point; to direct; to incline.

Bend (v. t.) To apply closely or with interest; to direct.

Bend (v. t.) To cause to yield; to render submissive; to subdue.

Bend (v. t.) To fasten, as one rope to another, or as a sail to its yard or stay; or as a cable to the ring of an anchor.

Bend (v. i.) To be moved or strained out of a straight line; to crook or be curving; to bow.

Bend (v. i.) To jut over; to overhang.

Bend (v. i.) To be inclined; to be directed.

Bend (v. i.) To bow in prayer, or in token of submission.

Bend (n.) A turn or deflection from a straight line or from the proper direction or normal position; a curve; a crook; as, a slight bend of the body; a bend in a road.

Bend (n.) Turn; purpose; inclination; ends.

Bend (n.) A knot by which one rope is fastened to another or to an anchor, spar, or post.

Bend (n.) The best quality of sole leather; a butt. See Butt.

Bend (n.) Hard, indurated clay; bind.

Bend (n.) same as caisson disease. Usually referred to as the bends.

Bend (n.) A band.

Bend (n.) One of the honorable ordinaries, containing a third or a fifth part of the field. It crosses the field diagonally from the dexter chief to the sinister base.

Bendable (a.) Capable of being bent.

Bender (n.) One who, or that which, bends.

Bender (n.) An instrument used for bending.

Bender (n.) A drunken spree.

Bender (n.) A sixpence.

Bending (n.) The marking of the clothes with stripes or horizontal bands.

Bendlet (n.) A narrow bend, esp. one half the width of the bend.

Bendwise (adv.) Diagonally.

Bendy (a.) Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield or its charge.

Bene (n.) See Benne.

Bene (n.) A prayer; boon.

Bene (n.) Alt. of Ben

Ben (n.) A hoglike mammal of New Guinea (Porcula papuensis).

Beneaped (a.) See Neaped.

Beneath (prep.) Lower in place, with something directly over or on; under; underneath; hence, at the foot of.

Beneath (prep.) Under, in relation to something that is superior, or that oppresses or burdens.

Beneath (prep.) Lower in rank, dignity, or excellence than; as, brutes are beneath man; man is beneath angels in the scale of beings. Hence: Unworthy of; unbecoming.

Beneath (adv.) In a lower place; underneath.

Beneath (adv.) Below, as opposed to heaven, or to any superior region or position; as, in earth beneath.

Benedicite (n.) A canticle (the Latin version of which begins with this word) which may be used in the order for morning prayer in the Church of England. It is taken from an apocryphal addition to the third chapter of Daniel.

Benedicite (n.) An exclamation corresponding to Bless you !.

Benedict (n.) Alt. of Benedick

Benedick (n.) A married man, or a man newly married.

Benedict (a.) Having mild and salubrious qualities.

Benedictine (a.) Pertaining to the monks of St. Benedict, or St. Benet.

Benedictine (n.) One of a famous order of monks, established by St. Benedict of Nursia in the sixth century. This order was introduced into the United States in 1846.

Benediction (n.) The act of blessing.

Benediction (n.) A blessing; an expression of blessing, prayer, or kind wishes in favor of any person or thing; a solemn or affectionate invocation of happiness.

Benediction (n.) The short prayer which closes public worship; as, to give the benediction.

Benediction (n.) The form of instituting an abbot, answering to the consecration of a bishop.

Benediction (n.) A solemn rite by which bells, banners, candles, etc., are blessed with holy water, and formally dedicated to God.

Benedictional (n.) A book of benedictions.

Benedictionary (n.) A collected series of benedictions.

Benedictive (a.) Tending to bless.

Benedictory (a.) Expressing wishes for good; as, a benedictory prayer.

Benedictus (a.) The song of Zacharias at the birth of John the Baptist (Luke i. 68); -- so named from the first word of the Latin version.

Benedight (a.) Blessed.

Benefaction (n.) The act of conferring a benefit.

Benefaction (n.) A benefit conferred; esp. a charitable donation.

Benefactor (n.) One who confers a benefit or benefits.

Benefactress (n.) A woman who confers a benefit.

Benefic (a.) Favorable; beneficent.

Benefice (n.) A favor or benefit.

Benefice (n.) An estate in lands; a fief.

Benefice (n.) An ecclesiastical living and church preferment, as in the Church of England; a church endowed with a revenue for the maintenance of divine service. See Advowson.

Beneficed (imp. & p. p.) of Benefice

Benefice (v. t.) To endow with a benefice.

Beneficed (a.) Possessed of a benefice or church preferment.

Beneficeless (a.) Having no benefice.

Beneficence (n.) The practice of doing good; active goodness, kindness, or charity; bounty springing from purity and goodness.

Beneficent (a.) Doing or producing good; performing acts of kindness and charity; characterized by beneficence.

Beneficential (a.) Relating to beneficence.

Beneficently (adv.) In a beneficent manner; with beneficence.

Beneficial (a.) Conferring benefits; useful; profitable; helpful; advantageous; serviceable; contributing to a valuable end; -- followed by to.

Beneficial (a.) Receiving, or entitled to have or receive, advantage, use, or benefit; as, the beneficial owner of an estate.

Beneficial (a.) King.

Beneficially (adv.) In a beneficial or advantageous manner; profitably; helpfully.

Beneficialness (n.) The quality of being beneficial; profitableness.

Beneficiary (a.) Holding some office or valuable possession, in subordination to another; holding under a feudal or other superior; having a dependent and secondary possession.

Beneficiary (a.) Bestowed as a gratuity; as, beneficiary gifts.

Beneficiaries (pl. ) of Beneficiary

Beneficiary (n.) A feudatory or vassal; hence, one who holds a benefice and uses its proceeds.

Beneficiary (n.) One who receives anything as a gift; one who receives a benefit or advantage; esp. one who receives help or income from an educational fund or a trust estate.

Beneficiate (v. t.) To reduce (ores).

Beneficient (a.) Beneficent.

Benefit (n.) An act of kindness; a favor conferred.

Benefit (n.) Whatever promotes prosperity and personal happiness, or adds value to property; advantage; profit.

Benefit (n.) A theatrical performance, a concert, or the like, the proceeds of which do not go to the lessee of the theater or to the company, but to some individual actor, or to some charitable use.

Benefit (n.) Beneficence; liberality.

Benefit (n.) Natural advantages; endowments; accomplishments.

Benefited (imp. & p. p.) of Benefit

Benefitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Benefit

Benefit (v. t.) To be beneficial to; to do good to; to advantage; to advance in health or prosperity; to be useful to; to profit.

Benefit (v. i.) To gain advantage; to make improvement; to profit; as, he will benefit by the change.

Benefiter (n.) One who confers a benefit; -- also, one who receives a benefit.

Beneme (v. t.) To deprive (of), or take away (from).

Benempt (p. p.) Promised; vowed.

Benempt (p. p.) Named; styled.

Bene placito () At or during pleasure.

Bene placito () At pleasure; ad libitum.

Benetted (imp. & p. p.) of Benet

Benet (v. t.) To catch in a net; to insnare.

Benevolence (n.) The disposition to do good; good will; charitableness; love of mankind, accompanied with a desire to promote their happiness.

Benevolence (n.) An act of kindness; good done; charity given.

Benevolence (n.) A species of compulsory contribution or tax, which has sometimes been illegally exacted by arbitrary kings of England, and falsely represented as a gratuity.

Benevolent (a.) Having a disposition to do good; possessing or manifesting love to mankind, and a desire to promote their prosperity and happiness; disposed to give to good objects; kind; charitable.

Benevolous (a.) Kind; benevolent.

Bengal (n.) A province in India, giving its name to various stuffs, animals, etc.

Bengal (n.) A thin stuff, made of silk and hair, originally brought from Bengal.

Bengal (n.) Striped gingham, originally brought from Bengal; Bengal stripes.

Bengalee (n.) Alt. of Bengali

Bengali (n.) The language spoken in Bengal.

Bengalese (a.) Of or pertaining to Bengal.

Bengalese (n. sing. & pl) A native or natives of Bengal.

Bengola (n.) A Bengal light.

Benighted (imp. & p. p.) of Benight

Benighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Benight

Benight (v. t.) To involve in darkness; to shroud with the shades of night; to obscure.

Benight (v. t.) To overtake with night or darkness, especially before the end of a day's journey or task.

Benight (v. t.) To involve in moral darkness, or ignorance; to debar from intellectual light.

Benightment (n.) The condition of being benighted.

Benign (a.) Of a kind or gentle disposition; gracious; generous; favorable; benignant.

Benign (a.) Exhibiting or manifesting kindness, gentleness, favor, etc.; mild; kindly; salutary; wholesome.

Benign (a.) Of a mild type or character; as, a benign disease.

Benignancy (n.) Benignant quality; kindliness.

Benignant (a.) Kind; gracious; favorable.

Benignity (n.) The quality of being benign; goodness; kindness; graciousness.

Benignity (n.) Mildness; gentleness.

Benignity (n.) Salubrity; wholesome quality.

Benignly (adv.) In a benign manner.

Benim (v. t.) To take away.

Benison (n.) Blessing; beatitude; benediction.

Benitier (n.) A holy-water stoup.

Benjamin (n.) See Benzoin.

Benjamin (n.) A kind of upper coat for men.

Benjamite (n.) A descendant of Benjamin; one of the tribe of Benjamin.

Benne (n.) The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum), originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant. From their seeds an oil is expressed, called benne oil, used mostly for making soap. In the southern United States the seeds are used in candy.

Bennet (a.) The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum); herb bennet. The name is sometimes given to other plants, as the hemlock, valerian, etc.

Benshee (n.) See Banshee.

Bent () imp. & p. p. of Bend.

Bent (a. & p. p.) Changed by pressure so as to be no longer straight; crooked; as, a bent pin; a bent lever.

Bent (a. & p. p.) Strongly inclined toward something, so as to be resolved, determined, set, etc.; -- said of the mind, character, disposition, desires, etc., and used with on; as, to be bent on going to college; he is bent on mischief.

Bent (v.) The state of being curved, crooked, or inclined from a straight line; flexure; curvity; as, the bent of a bow.

Bent (v.) A declivity or slope, as of a hill.

Bent (v.) A leaning or bias; proclivity; tendency of mind; inclination; disposition; purpose; aim.

Bent (v.) Particular direction or tendency; flexion; course.

Bent (v.) A transverse frame of a framed structure.

Bent (v.) Tension; force of acting; energy; impetus.

Bent (n.) A reedlike grass; a stalk of stiff, coarse grass.

Bent (n.) A grass of the genus Agrostis, esp. Agrostis vulgaris, or redtop. The name is also used of many other grasses, esp. in America.

Bent (n.) Any neglected field or broken ground; a common; a moor.

Bent grass () Same as Bent, a kind of grass.

Benthal (a.) Relating to the deepest zone or region of the ocean.

Benthamic (a.) Of or pertaining to Bentham or Benthamism.

Benthamism (n.) That phase of the doctrine of utilitarianism taught by Jeremy Bentham; the doctrine that the morality of actions is estimated and determined by their utility; also, the theory that the sensibility to pleasure and the recoil from pain are the only motives which influence human desires and actions, and that these are the sufficient explanation of ethical and jural conceptions.

Benthamite (n.) One who believes in Benthamism.

Benting time () The season when pigeons are said to feed on bents, before peas are ripe.

Benty (a.) A bounding in bents, or the stalks of coarse, stiff, withered grass; as, benty fields.

Benty (a.) Resembling bent.

Benumbed (imp. & p. p.) of Benumb

Benumbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Benumb

Benumb (a.) To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; to stupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold.

Benumbed (a.) Made torpid; numbed; stupefied; deadened; as, a benumbed body and mind.

Benumbment (n.) Act of benumbing, or state of being benumbed; torpor.

Benzal (n.) A compound radical, C6H5.CH, of the aromatic series, related to benzyl and benzoyl; -- used adjectively or in combination.

Benzamide (n.) A transparent crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.NH2, obtained by the action of ammonia upon chloride of benzoyl, as also by several other reactions with benzoyl compounds.

Benzene (n.) A volatile, very inflammable liquid, C6H6, contained in the naphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal, from which it is separated by fractional distillation. The name is sometimes applied also to the impure commercial product or benzole, and also, but rarely, to a similar mixed product of petroleum.

Benzile (n.) A yellowish crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.CO.C6H5, formed from benzoin by the action of oxidizing agents, and consisting of a doubled benzoyl radical.

Benzine (n.) A liquid consisting mainly of the lighter and more volatile hydrocarbons of petroleum or kerosene oil, used as a solvent and for cleansing soiled fabrics; -- called also petroleum spirit, petroleum benzine. Varieties or similar products are gasoline, naphtha, rhigolene, ligroin, etc.

Benzine (n.) Same as Benzene.

Benzoate (n.) A salt formed by the union of benzoic acid with any salifiable base.

Benzoic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, benzoin.

Benzoin (n.) A resinous substance, dry and brittle, obtained from the Styrax benzoin, a tree of Sumatra, Java, etc., having a fragrant odor, and slightly aromatic taste. It is used in the preparation of benzoic acid, in medicine, and as a perfume.

Benzoin (n.) A white crystalline substance, C14H12O2, obtained from benzoic aldehyde and some other sources.

Benzoin (n.) The spicebush (Lindera benzoin).

Benzoinated (a.) Containing or impregnated with benzoin; as, benzoinated lard.

Benzole (n.) Alt. of Benzol

Benzol (n.) An impure benzene, used in the arts as a solvent, and for various other purposes. See Benzene.

Benzoline (n.) Same as Benzole.

Benzoline (n.) Same as Amarine.

Benzoyl (n.) A compound radical, C6H5.CO; the base of benzoic acid, of the oil of bitter almonds, and of an extensive series of compounds.

Benzyl (n.) A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoic acid; -- commonly used adjectively.

Bepaint (v. t.) To paint; to cover or color with, or as with, paint.

Bepelt (v. t.) To pelt roundly.

Bepinched (imp. & p. p.) of Bepinch

Bepinch (v. t.) To pinch, or mark with pinches.

Beplastered (imp. & p. p.) of Beplaster

Beplastering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beplaster

Beplaster (v. t.) To plaster over; to cover or smear thickly; to bedaub.

Beplumed (a.) Decked with feathers.

Bepommeled (imp. & p. p.) of Bepommel

Bepommeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bepommel

Bepommel (v. t.) To pommel; to beat, as with a stick; figuratively, to assail or criticise in conversation, or in writing.

Bepowder (v. t.) To sprinkle or cover with powder; to powder.

Bepraise (v. t.) To praise greatly or extravagantly.

Beprose (v. t.) To reduce to prose.

Bepuffed (a.) Puffed; praised.

Bepurple (v. t.) To tinge or dye with a purple color.

Bequeathed (imp. & p. p.) of Bequeath

Bequeathing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bequeath

Bequeath (v. t.) To give or leave by will; to give by testament; -- said especially of personal property.

Bequeath (v. t.) To hand down; to transmit.

Bequeath (v. t.) To give; to offer; to commit.

Bequeathable (a.) Capable of being bequeathed.

Bequeathal (n.) The act of bequeathing; bequeathment; bequest.

Bequeathment (n.) The act of bequeathing, or the state of being bequeathed; a bequest.

Bequest (n.) The act of bequeathing or leaving by will; as, a bequest of property by A. to B.

Bequest (n.) That which is left by will, esp. personal property; a legacy; also, a gift.

Bequest (v. t.) To bequeath, or leave as a legacy.

Bequethen () old p. p. of Bequeath.

Bequote (v. t.) To quote constantly or with great frequency.

Berained (imp. & p. p.) of Berain

Beraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berain

Berain (v. t.) To rain upon; to wet with rain.

Berated (imp. & p. p.) of Berate

Berating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berate

Berate (v. t.) To rate or chide vehemently; to scold.

Berattle (v. t.) To make rattle; to scold vociferously; to cry down.

Beray (v. t.) To make foul; to soil; to defile.

Berbe (n.) An African genet (Genetta pardina). See Genet.

Berber (n.) A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but often classed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole of North Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara, and who still occupy a large part of that region; -- called also Kabyles. Also, the language spoken by this people.

Berberine (n.) An alkaloid obtained, as a bitter, yellow substance, from the root of the barberry, gold thread, and other plants.

Berberry (n.) See Barberry.

Berdash (n.) A kind of neckcloth.

Bere (v. t.) To pierce.

Bere (n.) See Bear, barley.

Bereaved (imp. & p. p.) of Bereave

Bereft () of Bereave

Bereaving. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bereave

Bereave (v. t.) To make destitute; to deprive; to strip; -- with of before the person or thing taken away.

Bereave (v. t.) To take away from.

Bereave (v. t.) To take away.

Bereavement (n.) The state of being bereaved; deprivation; esp., the loss of a relative by death.

Bereaver (n.) One who bereaves.

Bereft () imp. & p. p. of Bereave.

Beretta (n.) Same as Berretta.

Berg (n.) A large mass or hill, as of ice.

Bergamot (n.) A tree of the Orange family (Citrus bergamia), having a roundish or pear-shaped fruit, from the rind of which an essential oil of delicious odor is extracted, much prized as a perfume. Also, the fruit.

Bergamot (n.) A variety of mint (Mentha aquatica, var. glabrata).

Bergamot (n.) The essence or perfume made from the fruit.

Bergamot (n.) A variety of pear.

Bergamot (n.) A variety of snuff perfumed with bergamot.

Bergamot (n.) A coarse tapestry, manufactured from flock of cotton or hemp, mixed with ox's or goat's hair; -- said to have been invented at Bergamo, Italy. Encyc. Brit.

Bergander (n.) A European duck (Anas tadorna). See Sheldrake.

Bergeret (n.) A pastoral song.

Bergh (n.) A hill.

Bergmaster (n.) See Barmaster.

Bergmeal (n.) An earthy substance, resembling fine flour. It is composed of the shells of infusoria, and in Lapland and Sweden is sometimes eaten, mixed with flour or ground birch bark, in times of scarcity. This name is also given to a white powdery variety of calcite.

Bergmote (n.) See Barmote.

Bergomask (n.) A rustic dance, so called in ridicule of the people of Bergamo, in Italy, once noted for their clownishness.

Bergylt (n.) The Norway haddock. See Rosefish.

Berhymed (imp. & p. p.) of Berhyme

Berhyming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berhyme

Berhyme (v. t.) To mention in rhyme or verse; to rhyme about.

Beriberi (n.) An acute disease occurring in India, characterized by multiple inflammatory changes in the nerves, producing great muscular debility, a painful rigidity of the limbs, and cachexy.

Berime (v. t.) To berhyme.

Berkeleian (a.) Of or relating to Bishop Berkeley or his system of idealism; as, Berkeleian philosophy.

Berlin (n.) A four-wheeled carriage, having a sheltered seat behind the body and separate from it, invented in the 17th century, at Berlin.

Berlin (n.) Fine worsted for fancy-work; zephyr worsted; -- called also Berlin wool.

Berm (n.) Alt. of Berme

Berme (n.) A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and the ditch.

Berme (n.) A ledge at the bottom of a bank or cutting, to catch earth that may roll down the slope, or to strengthen the bank.

Bermuda grass () A kind of grass (Cynodon Dactylon) esteemed for pasture in the Southern United States. It is a native of Southern Europe, but is now wide-spread in warm countries; -- called also scutch grass, and in Bermuda, devil grass.

Bernacle (n.) See Barnacle.

Berna fly () A Brazilian dipterous insect of the genus Trypeta, which lays its eggs in the nostrils or in wounds of man and beast, where the larvae do great injury.

Bernardine (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, or to the Cistercian monks.

Bernardine (n.) A Cistercian monk.

Bernese (a.) Pertaining to the city or canton of Bern, in Switzerland, or to its inhabitants.

Bernese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Bern.

Bernicle (n.) A bernicle goose.

Bernouse (n.) Same as Burnoose.

Berob (v. t.) To rob; to plunder.

Beroe (n.) A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to the Ctenophora.

Berretta (n.) A square cap worn by ecclesiastics of the Roman Catholic Church. A cardinal's berretta is scarlet; that worn by other clerics is black, except that a bishop's is lined with green.

Berried (a.) Furnished with berries; consisting of a berry; baccate; as, a berried shrub.

Berries (pl. ) of Berry

Berry (n.) Any small fleshy fruit, as the strawberry, mulberry, huckleberry, etc.

Berry (n.) A small fruit that is pulpy or succulent throughout, having seeds loosely imbedded in the pulp, as the currant, grape, blueberry.

Berry (n.) The coffee bean.

Berry (n.) One of the ova or eggs of a fish.

Berried (imp. & p. p.) of Berry

Berrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berry

Berry (v. i.) To bear or produce berries.

Berry (n.) A mound; a hillock.

Berrying (n.) A seeking for or gathering of berries, esp. of such as grow wild.

Berserk (n.) Alt. of Berserker

Berserker (n.) One of a class of legendary heroes, who fought frenzied by intoxicating liquors, and naked, regardless of wounds.

Berserker (n.) One who fights as if frenzied, like a Berserker.

Berstle (n.) See Bristle.

Berth (n.) Convenient sea room.

Berth (n.) A room in which a number of the officers or ship's company mess and reside.

Berth (n.) The place where a ship lies when she is at anchor, or at a wharf.

Berth (n.) An allotted place; an appointment; situation or employment.

Berth (n.) A place in a ship to sleep in; a long box or shelf on the side of a cabin or stateroom, or of a railway car, for sleeping in.

Berthed (imp. & p. p.) of Berth

Berthing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berth

Berth (v. t.) To give an anchorage to, or a place to lie at; to place in a berth; as, she was berthed stem to stern with the Adelaide.

Berth (v. t.) To allot or furnish berths to, on shipboard; as, to berth a ship's company.

Bertha (n.) A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies.

Berthage (n.) A place for mooring vessels in a dock or harbor.

Berthierite (n.) A double sulphide of antimony and iron, of a dark steel-gray color.

Berthing (n.) The planking outside of a vessel, above the sheer strake.

Bertram (n.) Pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).

Berycoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Berycidae, a family of marine fishes.

Beryl (n.) A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of much beauty. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly of a green or bluish green color, but also yellow, pink, and white. It is a silicate of aluminium and glucinum (beryllium). The aquamarine is a transparent, sea-green variety used as a gem. The emerald is another variety highly prized in jewelry, and distinguished by its deep color, which is probably due to the presence of a little oxide of chromium.

Berylline (a.) Like a beryl; of a light or bluish green color.

Beryllium (n.) A metallic element found in the beryl. See Glucinum.

Berylloid (n.) A solid consisting of a double twelve-sided pyramid; -- so called because the planes of this form occur on crystals of beryl.

Besaiel (n.) Alt. of Besayle

Besaile (n.) Alt. of Besayle

Besayle (n.) A great-grandfather.

Besayle (n.) A kind of writ which formerly lay where a great-grandfather died seized of lands in fee simple, and on the day of his death a stranger abated or entered and kept the heir out. This is now abolished.

Besaint (v. t.) To make a saint of.

Besant (n.) See Bezant.

Bes-antler (n.) Same as Bez-antler.

Bescatter (v. t.) To scatter over.

Bescatter (v. t.) To cover sparsely by scattering (something); to strew.

Bescorn (v. t.) To treat with scorn.

Bescratch (v. t.) To tear with the nails; to cover with scratches.

Bescrawl (v. t.) To cover with scrawls; to scribble over.

Bescreen (v. t.) To cover with a screen, or as with a screen; to shelter; to conceal.

Bescribble (v. t.) To scribble over.

Bescumber (v. t.) Alt. of Bescummer

Bescummer (v. t.) To discharge ordure or dung upon.

Besee (v. t. & i.) To see; to look; to mind.

Besought (imp. & p. p.) of Beseech

Beseeching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beseech

Beseech (v. t.) To ask or entreat with urgency; to supplicate; to implore.

Beseech (n.) Solicitation; supplication.

Beseecher (n.) One who beseeches.

Beseeching (a.) Entreating urgently; imploring; as, a beseeching look.

Beseechment (n.) The act of beseeching or entreating earnestly.

Beseek (v. t.) To beseech.

Beseemed (imp. & p. p.) of Beseem

Beseeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beseem

Beseem (v. t.) Literally: To appear or seem (well, ill, best, etc.) for (one) to do or to have. Hence: To be fit, suitable, or proper for, or worthy of; to become; to befit.

Beseem (v. i.) To seem; to appear; to be fitting.

Beseeming (n.) Appearance; look; garb.

Beseeming (n.) Comeliness.

Beseeming (a.) Becoming; suitable.

Beseemly (a.) Fit; suitable; becoming.

Beseen (a.) Seen; appearing.

Beseen (a.) Decked or adorned; clad.

Beseen (a.) Accomplished; versed.

Beset (imp. & p. p.) of Beset

Besetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beset

Beset (v. t.) To set or stud (anything) with ornaments or prominent objects.

Beset (v. t.) To hem in; to waylay; to surround; to besiege; to blockade.

Beset (v. t.) To set upon on all sides; to perplex; to harass; -- said of dangers, obstacles, etc.

Beset (v. t.) To occupy; to employ; to use up.

Besetment (n.) The act of besetting, or the state of being beset; also, that which besets one, as a sin.

Besetter (n.) One who, or that which, besets.

Besetting (a.) Habitually attacking, harassing, or pressing upon or about; as, a besetting sin.

Beshone (imp. & p. p.) of Beshine

Beshining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beshine

Beshine (v. t.) To shine upon; to illumine.

Beshow (n.) A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria) of the north Pacific coast; -- called also candlefish.

Beshrew (v. t.) To curse; to execrate.

Beshroud (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to screen.

Beshut (v. t.) To shut up or out.

Beside (n.) At the side of; on one side of.

Beside (n.) Aside from; out of the regular course or order of; in a state of deviation from; out of.

Beside (n.) Over and above; distinct from; in addition to.

Besides (adv.) Alt. of Beside

Beside (adv.) On one side.

Beside (adv.) More than that; over and above; not included in the number, or in what has been mentioned; moreover; in addition.

Besides (prep.) Over and above; separate or distinct from; in addition to; other than; else than. See Beside, prep., 3, and Syn. under Beside.

Besieged (imp. & p. p.) of Besiege

Besieging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besiege

Besiege (v. t.) To beset or surround with armed forces, for the purpose of compelling to surrender; to lay siege to; to beleaguer; to beset.

Besiegement (n.) The act of besieging, or the state of being besieged.

Besieger (n.) One who besieges; -- opposed to the besieged.

Besieging (a.) That besieges; laying siege to.

Besit (v. t.) To suit; to fit; to become.

Beslabber (v. t.) To beslobber.

Beslave (v. t.) To enslave.

Beslavered (imp. & p. p.) of Beslaver

Beslavering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beslaver

Beslaver (v. t.) To defile with slaver; to beslobber.

Beslime (v. t.) To daub with slime; to soil.

Beslobber (v. t.) To slobber on; to smear with spittle running from the mouth. Also Fig.: as, to beslobber with praise.

Beslubber (v. t.) To beslobber.

Besmeared (imp. & p. p.) of Besmear

Besmearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besmear

Besmear (v. t.) To smear with any viscous, glutinous matter; to bedaub; to soil.

Besmearer (n.) One that besmears.

Besmirched (imp. & p. p.) of Besmirch

Besmirching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besmirch

Besmirch (v. t.) To smirch or soil; to discolor; to obscure. Hence: To dishonor; to sully.

Besmoke (v. t.) To foul with smoke.

Besmoke (v. t.) To harden or dry in smoke.

Besmutted (imp. & p. p.) of Besmut

Besmutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besmut

Besmut (v. t.) To blacken with smut; to foul with soot.

Besnowed (imp. & p. p.) of Besnow

Besnow (v. t.) To scatter like snow; to cover thick, as with snow flakes.

Besnow (v. t.) To cover with snow; to whiten with snow, or as with snow.

Besnuff (v. t.) To befoul with snuff.

Besogne (n.) A worthless fellow; a bezonian.

Besom (n.) A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweeps away or destroys.

Besomed (imp. & p. p.) of Besom

Besom (v. t.) To sweep, as with a besom.

Besomer (n.) One who uses a besom.

Besort (v. t.) To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become.

Besort (n.) Befitting associates or attendants.

Besotted (imp. & p. p.) of Besot

Besotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besot

Besot (v. t.) To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; to infatuate.

Besotted (a.) Made sottish, senseless, or infatuated; characterized by drunken stupidity, or by infatuation; stupefied.

Besottingly (adv.) In a besotting manner.

Besought () p. p. of Beseech.

Bespangled (imp. & p. p.) of Bespangle

Bespangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespangle

Bespangle (v. t.) To adorn with spangles; to dot or sprinkle with something brilliant or glittering.

Bespattered (imp. & p. p.) of Bespatter

Bespattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespatter

Bespatter (v. t.) To soil by spattering; to sprinkle, esp. with dirty water, mud, or anything which will leave foul spots or stains.

Bespatter (v. t.) To asperse with calumny or reproach.

Bespawl (v. t.) To daub, soil, or make foul with spawl or spittle.

Bespoke (imp.) of Bespeak

Bespake () of Bespeak

Bespoke (p. p.) of Bespeak

Bespoken () of Bespeak

Bespeaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespeak

Bespeak (v. t.) To speak or arrange for beforehand; to order or engage against a future time; as, to bespeak goods, a right, or a favor.

Bespeak (v. t.) To show beforehand; to foretell; to indicate.

Bespeak (v. t.) To betoken; to show; to indicate by external marks or appearances.

Bespeak (v. t.) To speak to; to address.

Bespeak (v. i.) To speak.

Bespeak (n.) A bespeaking. Among actors, a benefit (when a particular play is bespoken.)

Bespeaker (n.) One who bespeaks.

Bespeckled (imp. & p. p.) of Bespeckle

Bespeckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespeckle

Bespeckle (v. t.) To mark with speckles or spots.

Bespew (v. t.) To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on.

Bespice (v. t.) To season with spice, or with some spicy drug.

Bespirt (v. t.) Same as Bespurt.

Bespit (imp.) of Bespit

Bespit (p. p.) of Bespit

Bespitten () of Bespit

Bespitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespit

Bespit (v. t.) To daub or soil with spittle.

Bespoke () imp. & p. p. of Bespeak.

Bespotted (imp. & p. p.) of Bespot

Bespotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespot

Bespot (v. t.) To mark with spots, or as with spots.

Bespread (imp. & p. p.) of Bespread

Bespreading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespread

Bespread (v. t.) To spread or cover over.

Besprent (p. p.) Sprinkled over; strewed.

Besprinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Besprinkle

Besprinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besprinkle

Besprinkle (v. t.) To sprinkle over; to scatter over.

Besprinkler (n.) One who, or that which, besprinkles.

Besprinkling (n.) The act of sprinkling anything; a sprinkling over.

Bespurt (v. t.) To spurt on or over; to asperse.

Bessemer steel () Steel made directly from cast iron, by burning out a portion of the carbon and other impurities that the latter contains, through the agency of a blast of air which is forced through the molten metal; -- so called from Sir Henry Bessemer, an English engineer, the inventor of the process.

Best (a.) Having good qualities in the highest degree; most good, kind, desirable, suitable, etc.; most excellent; as, the best man; the best road; the best cloth; the best abilities.

Best (a.) Most advanced; most correct or complete; as, the best scholar; the best view of a subject.

Best (a.) Most; largest; as, the best part of a week.

Best (n.) Utmost; highest endeavor or state; most nearly perfect thing, or being, or action; as, to do one's best; to the best of our ability.

Best (superl.) In the highest degree; beyond all others.

Best (superl.) To the most advantage; with the most success, case, profit, benefit, or propriety.

Best (superl.) Most intimately; most thoroughly or correctly; as, what is expedient is best known to himself.

Best (v. t.) To get the better of.

Bestad (imp. & p. p.) Beset; put in peril.

Bestain (v. t.) To stain.

Bestarred (imp. & p. p.) of Bestar

Bestar (v. t.) To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or as with, stars; to bestud.

Bestead (imp. & p. p.) of Bestead

Bested () of Bestead

Bestad () of Bestead

Besteaded () of Bestead

Bestead (v. t.) To put in a certain situation or condition; to circumstance; to place.

Bestead (v. t.) To put in peril; to beset.

Bestead (v. t.) To serve; to assist; to profit; to avail.

Bestial (a.) Belonging to a beast, or to the class of beasts.

Bestial (a.) Having the qualities of a beast; brutal; below the dignity of reason or humanity; irrational; carnal; beastly; sensual.

Bestial (n.) A domestic animal; also collectively, cattle; as, other kinds of bestial.

Bestiality (n.) The state or quality of being bestial.

Bestiality (n.) Unnatural connection with a beast.

Bestialized (imp. & p. p.) of Bestialize

Bestializing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestialize

Bestialize (v. t.) To make bestial, or like a beast; to degrade; to brutalize.

Bestially (adv.) In a bestial manner.

Bestuck (imp. & p. p.) of Bestick

Besticking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestick

Bestick (v. t.) To stick over, as with sharp points pressed in; to mark by infixing points or spots here and there; to pierce.

Bestill (v. t.) To make still.

Bestirred (imp. & p. p.) of Bestir

Bestirring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestir

Bestir (v. t.) To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life and vigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun.

Bestorm (v. i. & t.) To storm.

Bestowed (imp. & p. p.) of Bestow

Bestowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestow

Bestow (v. t.) To lay up in store; to deposit for safe keeping; to stow; to place; to put.

Bestow (v. t.) To use; to apply; to devote, as time or strength in some occupation.

Bestow (v. t.) To expend, as money.

Bestow (v. t.) To give or confer; to impart; -- with on or upon.

Bestow (v. t.) To give in marriage.

Bestow (v. t.) To demean; to conduct; to behave; -- followed by a reflexive pronoun.

Bestowal (n.) The act of bestowing; disposal.

Bestower (n.) One that bestows.

Bestowment (n.) The act of giving or bestowing; a conferring or bestowal.

Bestowment (n.) That which is given or bestowed.

Bestraddle (v. t.) To bestride.

Bestraught (a.) Out of one's senses; distracted; mad.

Bestreak (v. t.) To streak.

Bestrewed (imp.) of Bestrew

Bestrewed (p. p.) of Bestrew

Bestrown () of Bestrew

Bestrewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestrew

Bestrew (v. t.) To strew or scatter over; to besprinkle.

Bestrode (imp.) of Bestride

Bestrid () of Bestride

Bestridden (p. p.) of Bestride

Bestrid () of Bestride

Bestrode () of Bestride

Bestriding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestride

Bestride (v. t.) To stand or sit with anything between the legs, or with the legs astride; to stand over

Bestride (v. t.) To step over; to stride over or across; as, to bestride a threshold.

Bestrode () imp. & p. p. of Bestride.

Bestrown () p. p. of Bestrew.

Bestuck () imp. & p. p. Bestick.

Bestudded (imp. & p. p.) of Bestud

Bestudding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestud

Bestud (v. t.) To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; to stud; as, to bestud with stars.

Beswike (v. t.) To lure; to cheat.

Bet (n.) That which is laid, staked, or pledged, as between two parties, upon the event of a contest or any contingent issue; the act of giving such a pledge; a wager.

Bet (imp. & p. p.) of Bet

Betted () of Bet

Betting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bet

Bet (v. t.) To stake or pledge upon the event of a contingent issue; to wager.

Bet () imp. & p. p. of Beat.

Bet (a. & adv.) An early form of Better.

Betaine (n.) A nitrogenous base, C5H11NO2, produced artificially, and also occurring naturally in beet-root molasses and its residues, from which it is extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- called also lycine and oxyneurine. It has a sweetish taste.

Betook (imp.) of Betake

Betaken (p. p.) of Betake

Betaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betake

Betake (v. t.) To take or seize.

Betake (v. t.) To have recourse to; to apply; to resort; to go; -- with a reflexive pronoun.

Betake (v. t.) To commend or intrust to; to commit to.

Betaught (a.) Delivered; committed in trust.

Bete (v. t.) To better; to mend. See Beete.

Beteela (n.) An East India muslin, formerly used for cravats, veils, etc.

Beteem (a.) To give ; to bestow; to grant; to accord; to consent.

Beteem (a.) To allow; to permit; to suffer.

Betel (n.) A species of pepper (Piper betle), the leaves of which are chewed, with the areca or betel nut and a little shell lime, by the inhabitants of the East Indies. It is a woody climber with ovate many-nerved leaves.

Betelguese (n.) A bright star of the first magnitude, near one shoulder of Orion.

Betel nut () The nutlike seed of the areca palm, chewed in the East with betel leaves (whence its name) and shell lime.

Bete noire () Something especially hated or dreaded; a bugbear.

Bethabara wood () A highly elastic wood, used for fishing rods, etc. The tree is unknown, but it is thought to be East Indian.

Bethel (n.) A place of worship; a hallowed spot.

Bethel (n.) A chapel for dissenters.

Bethel (n.) A house of worship for seamen.

Bethought (imp. & p. p.) of Bethink

Bethinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bethink

Bethink (v. t.) To call to mind; to recall or bring to recollection, reflection, or consideration; to think; to consider; -- generally followed by a reflexive pronoun, often with of or that before the subject of thought.

Bethink (v. i.) To think; to recollect; to consider.

Bethlehem (n.) A hospital for lunatics; -- corrupted into bedlam.

Bethlehem (n.) In the Ethiopic church, a small building attached to a church edifice, in which the bread for the eucharist is made.

Bethlehemite (n.) Alt. of Bethlemite

Bethlemite (n.) An inhabitant of Bethlehem in Judea.

Bethlemite (n.) An insane person; a madman; a bedlamite.

Bethlemite (n.) One of an extinct English order of monks.

Bethought () imp. & p. p. of Bethink.

Bethrall (v. t.) To reduce to thralldom; to inthrall.

Bethumb (v. t.) To handle; to wear or soil by handling; as books.

Bethumped (imp. & p. p.) of Bethump

Bethumpt () of Bethump

Bethumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bethump

Bethump (v. t.) To beat or thump soundly.

Betided (imp. & p. p.) of Betide

Betid (Obs) of Betide

Betiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betide

Betide (v. t.) To happen to; to befall; to come to ; as, woe betide the wanderer.

Betide (v. i.) To come to pass; to happen; to occur.

Betime (adv.) Alt. of Betimes

Betimes (adv.) In good season or time; before it is late; seasonably; early.

Betimes (adv.) In a short time; soon; speedily; forth with.

Betitle (v. t.) To furnish with a title or titles; to entitle.

Betokened (imp. & p. p.) of Betoken

Betokening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betoken

Betoken (v. t.) To signify by some visible object; to show by signs or tokens.

Betoken (v. t.) To foreshow by present signs; to indicate something future by that which is seen or known; as, a dark cloud often betokens a storm.

Beton (n.) The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after the French fashion.

Betongue (v. t.) To attack with the tongue; to abuse; to insult.

Betonies (pl. ) of Betony

Betony (n.) A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.).

Betook () imp. of Betake.

Betorn (a.) Torn in pieces; tattered.

Betossed (imp. & p. p.) of Betoss

Betoss (v. t.) To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss.

Betrapped (imp. & p. p.) of Betrap

Betrap (v. t.) To draw into, or catch in, a trap; to insnare; to circumvent.

Betrap (v. t.) To put trappings on; to clothe; to deck.

Betrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Betray

Betraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betray

Betray (v. t.) To deliver into the hands of an enemy by treachery or fraud, in violation of trust; to give up treacherously or faithlessly; as, an officer betrayed the city.

Betray (v. t.) To prove faithless or treacherous to, as to a trust or one who trusts; to be false to; to deceive; as, to betray a person or a cause.

Betray (v. t.) To violate the confidence of, by disclosing a secret, or that which one is bound in honor not to make known.

Betray (v. t.) To disclose or discover, as something which prudence would conceal; to reveal unintentionally.

Betray (v. t.) To mislead; to expose to inconvenience not foreseen to lead into error or sin.

Betray (v. t.) To lead astray, as a maiden; to seduce (as under promise of marriage) and then abandon.

Betray (v. t.) To show or to indicate; -- said of what is not obvious at first, or would otherwise be concealed.

Betrayal (n.) The act or the result of betraying.

Betrayer (n.) One who, or that which, betrays.

Betrayment (n.) Betrayal.

Betrimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Betrim

Betrimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betrim

Betrim (v. t.) To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim.

Betrothed (imp. & p. p.) of Betroth

Betrothing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betroth

Betroth (v. t.) To contract to any one for a marriage; to engage or promise in order to marriage; to affiance; -- used esp. of a woman.

Betroth (v. t.) To promise to take (as a future spouse); to plight one's troth to.

Betroth (v. t.) To nominate to a bishopric, in order to consecration.

Betrothal (n.) The act of betrothing, or the fact of being betrothed; a mutual promise, engagement, or contract for a future marriage between the persons betrothed; betrothment; affiance.

Betrothment (n.) The act of betrothing, or the state of being betrothed; betrothal.

Betrust (v. t.) To trust or intrust.

Betrustment (n.) The act of intrusting, or the thing intrusted.

Betso (n.) A small brass Venetian coin.

Better (a.) Having good qualities in a greater degree than another; as, a better man; a better physician; a better house; a better air.

Better (a.) Preferable in regard to rank, value, use, fitness, acceptableness, safety, or in any other respect.

Better (a.) Greater in amount; larger; more.

Better (a.) Improved in health; less affected with disease; as, the patient is better.

Better (a.) More advanced; more perfect; as, upon better acquaintance; a better knowledge of the subject.

Better (n.) Advantage, superiority, or victory; -- usually with of; as, to get the better of an enemy.

Better (n.) One who has a claim to precedence; a superior, as in merit, social standing, etc.; -- usually in the plural.

Better (compar.) In a superior or more excellent manner; with more skill and wisdom, courage, virtue, advantage, or success; as, Henry writes better than John; veterans fight better than recruits.

Better (compar.) More correctly or thoroughly.

Better (compar.) In a higher or greater degree; more; as, to love one better than another.

Better (compar.) More, in reference to value, distance, time, etc.; as, ten miles and better.

Bettered (imp. & p. p.) of Better

Bettering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Better

Better (a.) To improve or ameliorate; to increase the good qualities of.

Better (a.) To improve the condition of, morally, physically, financially, socially, or otherwise.

Better (a.) To surpass in excellence; to exceed; to excel.

Better (a.) To give advantage to; to support; to advance the interest of.

Better (v. i.) To become better; to improve.

Better (n.) One who bets or lays a wager.

Betterment (n.) A making better; amendment; improvement.

Betterment (n.) An improvement of an estate which renders it better than mere repairing would do; -- generally used in the plural.

Bettermost (a.) Best.

Betterness (n.) The quality of being better or superior; superiority.

Betterness (n.) The difference by which fine gold or silver exceeds in fineness the standard.

Bettong (n.) A small, leaping Australian marsupial of the genus Bettongia; the jerboa kangaroo.

Bettor (n.) One who bets; a better.

Betty (n.) A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open.

Betty (n.) A name of contempt given to a man who interferes with the duties of women in a household, or who occupies himself with womanish matters.

Betty (n.) A pear-shaped bottle covered round with straw, in which olive oil is sometimes brought from Italy; -- called by chemists a Florence flask.

Betulin (n.) A substance of a resinous nature, obtained from the outer bark of the common European birch (Betula alba), or from the tar prepared therefrom; -- called also birch camphor.

Betumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Betumble

Betumble (v. t.) To throw into disorder; to tumble.

Betutored (imp. & p. p.) of Betutor

Betutor (v. t.) To tutor; to instruct.

Between (prep.) In the space which separates; betwixt; as, New York is between Boston and Philadelphia.

Between (prep.) Used in expressing motion from one body or place to another; from one to another of two.

Between (prep.) Belonging in common to two; shared by both.

Between (prep.) Belonging to, or participated in by, two, and involving reciprocal action or affecting their mutual relation; as, opposition between science and religion.

Between (prep.) With relation to two, as involved in an act or attribute of which another is the agent or subject; as, to judge between or to choose between courses; to distinguish between you and me; to mediate between nations.

Between (prep.) In intermediate relation to, in respect to time, quantity, or degree; as, between nine and ten o'clock.

Between (n.) Intermediate time or space; interval.

Betwixt (prep.) In the space which separates; between.

Betwixt (prep.) From one to another of; mutually affecting.

Beurre (n.) A beurre (or buttery) pear, one with the meat soft and melting; -- used with a distinguishing word; as, Beurre d'Anjou; Beurre Clairgeau.

Bevel (n.) Any angle other than a right angle; the angle which one surface makes with another when they are not at right angles; the slant or inclination of such surface; as, to give a bevel to the edge of a table or a stone slab; the bevel of a piece of timber.

Bevel (n.) An instrument consisting of two rules or arms, jointed together at one end, and opening to any angle, for adjusting the surfaces of work to the same or a given inclination; -- called also a bevel square.

Bevel (a.) Having the slant of a bevel; slanting.

Bevel (a.) Hence: Morally distorted; not upright.

Beveled (imp. & p. p.) of Bevel

Bevelled () of Bevel

Beveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bevel

Bevelling () of Bevel

Bevel (v. t.) To cut to a bevel angle; to slope the edge or surface of.

Bevel (v. i.) To deviate or incline from an angle of 90, as a surface; to slant.

Beveled (a.) Alt. of Bevelled

Bevelled (a.) Formed to a bevel angle; sloping; as, the beveled edge of a table.

Bevelled (a.) Replaced by two planes inclining equally upon the adjacent planes, as an edge; having its edges replaced by sloping planes, as a cube or other solid.

Bevel gear () A kind of gear in which the two wheels working together lie in different planes, and have their teeth cut at right angles to the surfaces of two cones whose apices coincide with the point where the axes of the wheels would meet.

Bevelment (n.) The replacement of an edge by two similar planes, equally inclined to the including faces or adjacent planes.

Bever (n.) A light repast between meals; a lunch.

Bevered (imp. & p. p.) of Bever

Bever (v. i.) To take a light repast between meals.

Beverage (v. t.) Liquid for drinking; drink; -- usually applied to drink artificially prepared and of an agreeable flavor; as, an intoxicating beverage.

Beverage (v. t.) Specifically, a name applied to various kinds of drink.

Beverage (v. t.) A treat, or drink money.

Bevile (n.) A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel.

Beviled (a.) Alt. of Bevilled

Bevilled (a.) Notched with an angle like that inclosed by a carpenter's bevel; -- said of a partition line of a shield.

Bevies (pl. ) of Bevy

Bevy (n.) A company; an assembly or collection of persons, especially of ladies.

Bevy (n.) A flock of birds, especially quails or larks; also, a herd of roes.

Bewailed (imp. & p. p.) of Bewail

Bewailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bewail

Bewail (v. t.) To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wail over.

Bewail (v. i.) To express grief; to lament.

Bewailable (a.) Such as may, or ought to, be bewailed; lamentable.

Bewailer (n.) One who bewails or laments.

Bewailing (a.) Wailing over; lamenting.

Bewailment (n.) The act of bewailing.

Bewake (v. t. & i.) To keep watch over; to keep awake.

Beware (v. i.) To be on one's guard; to be cautious; to take care; -- commonly followed by of or lest before the thing that is to be avoided.

Beware (v. i.) To have a special regard; to heed.

Beware (v. t.) To avoid; to take care of; to have a care for.

Bewash (v. t.) To drench or souse with water.

Bewept (imp. & p. p.) of Beweep

Beweeping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beweep

Beweep (v. t.) To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears.

Beweep (v. i.) To weep.

Bewet (imp. & p. p.) of Bewet

Bewetted () of Bewet

Bewet (v. t.) To wet or moisten.

Bewhore (v. t.) To corrupt with regard to chastity; to make a whore of.

Bewhore (v. t.) To pronounce or characterize as a whore.

Bewigged (imp. & p. p.) of Bewig

Bewig (v. t.) To cover (the head) with a wig.

Bewildered (imp. & p. p.) of Bewilder

Bewildering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bewilder

Bewilder (v. t.) To lead into perplexity or confusion, as for want of a plain path; to perplex with mazes; or in general, to perplex or confuse greatly.

Bewildered (a.) Greatly perplexed; as, a bewildered mind.

Bewilderedness (n.) The state of being bewildered; bewilderment.

Bewildering (a.) Causing bewilderment or great perplexity; as, bewildering difficulties.

Bewilderment (n.) The state of being bewildered.

Bewilderment (n.) A bewildering tangle or confusion.

Bewinter (v. t.) To make wintry.

Bewit (n.) A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to a hawk's legs.

Bewitched (imp. & p. p.) of Bewitch

Bewitching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bewitch

Bewitch (v. t.) To gain an ascendency over by charms or incantations; to affect (esp. to injure) by witchcraft or sorcery.

Bewitch (v. t.) To charm; to fascinate; to please to such a degree as to take away the power of resistance; to enchant.

Bewitchedness (n.) The state of being bewitched.

Bewitcher (n.) One who bewitches.

Bewitchery (n.) The power of bewitching or fascinating; bewitchment; charm; fascination.

Bewitching (a.) Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating; charming.

Bewitchment (n.) The act of bewitching, or the state of being bewitched.

Bewitchment (n.) The power of bewitching or charming.

Bewondered (imp. & p. p.) of Bewonder

Bewonder (v. t.) To fill with wonder.

Bewonder (v. t.) To wonder at; to admire.

Bewrapped (imp. & p. p.) of Bewrap

Bewrap (v. t.) To wrap up; to cover.

Bewray (v. t.) To soil. See Beray.

Bewrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Bewray

Bewraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bewray

Bewray (v. t.) To expose; to reveal; to disclose; to betray.

Bewrayer (n.) One who, or that which, bewrays; a revealer.

Bewrayment (n.) Betrayal.

Bewreck (v. t.) To wreck.

Bewreke (v. t.) To wreak; to avenge.

Bewrought (a.) Embroidered.

Bey (n.) A governor of a province or district in the Turkish dominions; also, in some places, a prince or nobleman; a beg; as, the bey of Tunis.

Beylic (n.) The territory ruled by a bey.

Beyond (prep.) On the further side of; in the same direction as, and further on or away than.

Beyond (prep.) At a place or time not yet reached; before.

Beyond (prep.) Past, out of the reach or sphere of; further than; greater than; as, the patient was beyond medical aid; beyond one's strength.

Beyond (prep.) In a degree or amount exceeding or surpassing; proceeding to a greater degree than; above, as in dignity, excellence, or quality of any kind.

Beyond (adv.) Further away; at a distance; yonder.

Bezant (n.) A gold coin of Byzantium or Constantinople, varying in weight and value, usually (those current in England) between a sovereign and a half sovereign. There were also white or silver bezants.

Bezant (n.) A circle in or, i. e., gold, representing the gold coin called bezant.

Bezant (n.) A decoration of a flat surface, as of a band or belt, representing circular disks lapping one upon another.

Bez-antler (n.) The second branch of a stag's horn.

Bezel (n.) The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object, as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set.

Bezique (n.) A game at cards in which various combinations of cards in the hand, when declared, score points.

Bezoar (n.) A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certain ruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvian llama) formerly regarded as an unfailing antidote for poison, and a certain remedy for eruptive, pestilential, or putrid diseases. Hence: Any antidote or panacea.

Bezoardic (a.) Pertaining to, or compounded with, bezoar.

Bezoardic (n.) A medicine containing bezoar.

Bezoartic (a.) Alt. of Bezoartical

Bezoartical (a.) Having the qualities of an antidote, or of bezoar; healing.

Bezonian (n.) A low fellow or scoundrel; a beggar.

Bezzled (imp. & p. p.) of Bezzle

Bezzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bezzle

Bezzle (v. t.) To plunder; to waste in riot.

Bezzle (v. i.) To drink to excess; to revel.

Bhang (n.) An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves and seed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked in the East as a means of intoxication. See Hasheesh.

Bhunder (n.) An Indian monkey (Macacus Rhesus), protected by the Hindoos as sacred. See Rhesus.

Bi- () In most branches of science bi- in composition denotes two, twice, or doubly; as, bidentate, two-toothed; biternate, doubly ternate, etc.

Bi- () In the composition of chemical names bi- denotes two atoms, parts, or equivalents of that constituent to the name of which it is prefixed, to one of the other component, or that such constituent is present in double the ordinary proportion; as, bichromate, bisulphide. Be- and di- are often used interchangeably.

Biacid (a.) Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negative atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases. See Diacid.

Biacuminate (a.) Having points in two directions.

Biangular (a.) Having two angles or corners.

Biangulate (a.) Alt. of Biangulated

Biangulated (a.) Biangular.

Biangulous (a.) Biangular.

Biantheriferous (a.) Having two anthers.

Biarticulate (a.) Having, or consisting of, tow joints.

Biases (pl. ) of Bias

Bias (n.) A weight on the side of the ball used in the game of bowls, or a tendency imparted to the ball, which turns it from a straight line.

Bias (n.) A leaning of the mind; propensity or prepossession toward an object or view, not leaving the mind indifferent; bent; inclination.

Bias (n.) A wedge-shaped piece of cloth taken out of a garment (as the waist of a dress) to diminish its circumference.

Bias (n.) A slant; a diagonal; as, to cut cloth on the bias.

Bias (a.) Inclined to one side; swelled on one side.

Bias (a.) Cut slanting or diagonally, as cloth.

Bias (adv.) In a slanting manner; crosswise; obliquely; diagonally; as, to cut cloth bias.

Biased (imp. & p. p.) of Bias

Biasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bias

Bias (v. t.) To incline to one side; to give a particular direction to; to influence; to prejudice; to prepossess.

Biauriculate (a.) Having two auricles, as the heart of mammals, birds, and reptiles.

Biauriculate (a.) Having two earlike projections at its base, as a leaf.

Biaxal (a.) Alt. of Biaxial

Biaxial (a.) Having two axes; as, biaxial polarization.

Bib (n.) A small piece of cloth worn by children over the breast, to protect the clothes.

Bib (n.) An arctic fish (Gadus luscus), allied to the cod; -- called also pout and whiting pout.

Bib (n.) A bibcock.

Bib (v. t.) Alt. of Bibbe

Bibbe (v. t.) To drink; to tipple.

Bib (v. i.) To drink; to sip; to tipple.

Bibacious (a.) Addicted to drinking.

Bibacity (n.) The practice or habit of drinking too much; tippling.

Bibasic (a.) Having to hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by positive or basic atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of acids. See Dibasic.

Bibb (n.) A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3.

Bibber (n.) One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; a tippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber.

Bibble-babble (n.) Idle talk; babble.

Bibbs (n. pl.) Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast to support the trestletrees.

Bibcock (n.) A cock or faucet having a bent down nozzle.

Bibirine (n.) See Bebeerine.

Bibitory (a.) Of or pertaining to drinking or tippling.

Bible (n.) A book.

Bible (n.) The Book by way of eminence, -- that is, the book which is made up of the writings accepted by Christians as of divine origin and authority, whether such writings be in the original language, or translated; the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments; -- sometimes in a restricted sense, the Old Testament; as, King James's Bible; Douay Bible; Luther's Bible. Also, the book which is made up of writings similarly accepted by the Jews; as, a rabbinical Bible.

Bible (n.) A book containing the sacred writings belonging to any religion; as, the Koran is often called the Mohammedan Bible.

Bible (n.) A book with an authoritative exposition of some topic, respected by many who are experts in the field.

Bibler (v. t.) A great drinker; a tippler.

Biblical (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the Bible; as, biblical learning; biblical authority.

Biblicality (n.) The quality of being biblical; a biblical subject.

Biblically (adv.) According to the Bible.

Biblicism (n.) Learning or literature relating to the Bible.

Biblicist (n.) One skilled in the knowledge of the Bible; a demonstrator of religious truth by the Scriptures.

Bibliograph (n.) Bibliographer.

Bibliographer (n.) One who writes, or is versed in, bibliography.

Bibliographic (a.) Alt. of Bibliographical

Bibliographical (a.) Pertaining to bibliography, or the history of books.

Bibliographies (pl. ) of Bibliography

Bibliography (n.) A history or description of books and manuscripts, with notices of the different editions, the times when they were printed, etc.

Bibliolater (n.) Alt. of Bibliolatrist

Bibliolatrist (n.) A worshiper of books; especially, a worshiper of the Bible; a believer in its verbal inspiration.

Bibliolatry (n.) Book worship, esp. of the Bible; -- applied by Roman Catholic divines to the exaltation of the authority of the Bible over that of the pope or the church, and by Protestants to an excessive regard to the letter of the Scriptures.

Bibliological (a.) Relating to bibliology.

Bibliology (n.) An account of books; book lore; bibliography.

Bibliology (n.) The literature or doctrine of the Bible.

Bibliomancy (n.) A kind of divination, performed by selecting passages of Scripture at hazard, and drawing from them indications concerning future events.

Bibliomania (n.) A mania for acquiring books.

Bibliomaniac (n.) One who has a mania for books.

Bibliomaniac (a.) Relating to a bibliomaniac.

Bibliomaniacal (a.) Pertaining to a passion for books; relating to a bibliomaniac.

Bibliopegic (a.) Relating to the binding of books.

Bibliopegist (n.) A bookbinder.

Bibliopegistic (a.) Pertaining to the art of binding books.

Bibliopegy (n.) The art of binding books.

Bibliophile (n.) A lover of books.

Bibliophilism (n.) Love of books.

Bibliophilist (n.) A lover of books.

Bibliophobia (n.) A dread of books.

Bibliopole (n.) One who sells books.

Bibliopolic (a.) Alt. of Bibliopolar

Bibliopolar (a.) Of or pertaining to the sale of books.

Bibliopolism (n.) The trade or business of selling books.

Bibliopolist (n.) Same as Bibliopole.

Bibliopolistic (a.) Of or pertaining to bibliopolism.

Bibliotaph (n.) Alt. of Bibliotaphist

Bibliotaphist (n.) One who hides away books, as in a tomb.

Bibliothec (n.) A librarian.

Bibliotheca (n.) A library.

Bibliothecal (a.) Belonging to a library.

Bibliothecary (n.) A librarian.

Bibliotheke (n.) A library.

Biblist (n.) One who makes the Bible the sole rule of faith.

Biblist (n.) A biblical scholar; a biblicist.

Bibracteate (a.) Furnished with, or having, two bracts.

Bibulous (v. t.) Readily imbibing fluids or moisture; spongy; as, bibulous blotting paper.

Bibulous (v. t.) Inclined to drink; addicted to tippling.

Bibulously (adv.) In a bibulous manner; with profuse imbibition or absorption.

Bicalcarate (a.) Having two spurs, as the wing or leg of a bird.

Bicallose (a.) Alt. of Bicallous

Bicallous (a.) Having two callosities or hard spots.

Bicameral (a.) Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislative branches.

Bicapsular (a.) Having two capsules; as, a bicapsular pericarp.

Bicarbonate (n.) A carbonate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the normal carbonates; an acid carbonate; -- sometimes called supercarbonate.

Bicarbureted (a.) Alt. of -retted

-retted (a.) Containing two atoms or equivalents of carbon in the molecule.

Bicarinate (a.) Having two keel-like projections, as the upper palea of grasses.

Bicaudal (a.) Having, or terminating in, two tails.

Bicaudate (a.) Two-tailed; bicaudal.

Bicched (a.) Pecked; pitted; notched.

Bice (n.) Alt. of Bise

Bise (n.) A pale blue pigment, prepared from the native blue carbonate of copper, or from smalt; -- called also blue bice.

Bicentenary (a.) Of or pertaining to two hundred, esp. to two hundred years; as, a bicentenary celebration.

Bicentenary (n.) The two hundredth anniversary, or its celebration.

Bicentennial (a.) Consisting of two hundred years.

Bicentennial (a.) Occurring every two hundred years.

Bicentennial (n.) The two hundredth year or anniversary, or its celebration.

Bicephalous (a.) Having two heads.

Biceps (n.) A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularly to a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh.

Bichir (n.) A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir) found in the Nile and other African rivers. See Brachioganoidei.

Bichloride (n.) A compound consisting of two atoms of chlorine with one or more atoms of another element; -- called also dichloride.

Bicho (n.) See Jigger.

Bichromate (n.) A salt containing two parts of chromic acid to one of the other ingredients; as, potassium bichromate; -- called also dichromate.

Bichromatize (v. t.) To combine or treat with a bichromate, esp. with bichromate of potassium; as, bichromatized gelatine.

Bicipital (a.) Having two heads or origins, as a muscle.

Bicipital (a.) Pertaining to a biceps muscle; as, bicipital furrows, the depressions on either side of the biceps of the arm.

Bicipital (a.) Dividing into two parts at one extremity; having two heads or two supports; as, a bicipital tree.

Bicipitous (a.) Having two heads; bicipital.

Bicker (n.) A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub.

Bickered (imp. & p. p.) of Bicker

Bickering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bicker

Bicker (v. i.) To skirmish; to exchange blows; to fight.

Bicker (v. i.) To contend in petulant altercation; to wrangle.

Bicker (v. i.) To move quickly and unsteadily, or with a pattering noise; to quiver; to be tremulous, like flame.

Bicker (n.) A skirmish; an encounter.

Bicker (n.) A fight with stones between two parties of boys.

Bicker (n.) A wrangle; also, a noise,, as in angry contention.

Bickerer (n.) One who bickers.

Bickering (n.) A skirmishing.

Bickering (n.) Altercation; wrangling.

Bickerment (n.) Contention.

Bickern (n.) An anvil ending in a beak or point (orig. in two beaks); also, the beak or horn itself.

Bicolligate (v. t.) Having the anterior toes connected by a basal web.

Bicolor (a.) Alt. of Bicolored

Bicolored (a.) Of two colors.

Biconcave (a.) Concave on both sides; as, biconcave vertebrae.

Biconjugate (a.) Twice paired, as when a petiole forks twice.

Biconvex (a.) Convex on both sides; as, a biconvex lens.

Bicorn (a.) Alt. of Bicornous

Bicorned (a.) Alt. of Bicornous

Bicornous (a.) Having two horns; two-horned; crescentlike.

Bicorporal (a.) Having two bodies.

Bicorporate (a.) Double-bodied, as a lion having one head and two bodies.

Bicostate (a.) Having two principal ribs running longitudinally, as a leaf.

Bicrenate (a.) Twice crenated, as in the case of leaves whose crenatures are themselves crenate.

Bicrescentic (a.) Having the form of a double crescent.

Bicrural (a.) Having two legs.

Bicuspid (a.) Alt. of Bicuspidate

Bicuspidate (a.) Having two points or prominences; ending in two points; -- said of teeth, leaves, fruit, etc.

Bicuspid (n.) One of the two double-pointed teeth which intervene between the canines (cuspids) and the molars, on each side of each jaw. See Tooth, n.

Bicyanide (n.) See Dicyanide.

Bicycle (n.) A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other. It has a saddle seat and is propelled by the rider's feet acting on cranks or levers.

Bicycler (n.) One who rides a bicycle.

Bicyclic (a.) Relating to bicycles.

Bicycling (n.) The use of a bicycle; the act or practice of riding a bicycle.

Bicyclism (n.) The art of riding a bicycle.

Bicyclist (n.) A bicycler.

Bicycular (a.) Relating to bicycling.

Bade (imp.) of Bid

Bid () of Bid

Bad () of Bid

Bidden (p. p.) of Bid

Bid () of Bid

Bidding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bid

Bid (v. t.) To make an offer of; to propose. Specifically : To offer to pay ( a certain price, as for a thing put up at auction), or to take (a certain price, as for work to be done under a contract).

Bid (v. t.) To offer in words; to declare, as a wish, a greeting, a threat, or defiance, etc.; as, to bid one welcome; to bid good morning, farewell, etc.

Bid (v. t.) To proclaim; to declare publicly; to make known.

Bid (v. t.) To order; to direct; to enjoin; to command.

Bid (v. t.) To invite; to call in; to request to come.

Bid () imp. & p. p. of Bid.

Bid (n.) An offer of a price, especially at auctions; a statement of a sum which one will give for something to be received, or will take for something to be done or furnished; that which is offered.

Bid (v. t.) To pray.

Bid (v. t.) To make a bid; to state what one will pay or take.

Bidale (n.) An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house, and there to contribute in charity for his relief.

Biddable (a.) Obedient; docile.

Bidden () p. p. of Bid.

Bidder (n.) One who bids or offers a price.

Biddery ware () A kind of metallic ware made in India. The material is a composition of zinc, tin, and lead, in which ornaments of gold and silver are inlaid or damascened.

Bidding (n.) Command; order; a proclamation or notifying.

Bidding (n.) The act or process of making bids; an offer; a proposal of a price, as at an auction.

Bidding prayer () The prayer for the souls of benefactors, said before the sermon.

Bidding prayer () The prayer before the sermon, with petitions for various specified classes of persons.

Biddy (n.) A name used in calling a hen or chicken.

Biddy (n.) An Irish serving woman or girl.

Bided (imp. & p. p.) of Bide

Biding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bide

Bide (v. t.) To dwell; to inhabit; to abide; to stay.

Bide (v. t.) To remain; to continue or be permanent in a place or state; to continue to be.

Bide (v. t.) To encounter; to remain firm under (a hardship); to endure; to suffer; to undergo.

Bide (v. t.) To wait for; as, I bide my time. See Abide.

Bident (n.) An instrument or weapon with two prongs.

Bidental (a.) Having two teeth.

Bidentate (a.) Having two teeth or two toothlike processes; two-toothed.

Bidet (n.) A small horse formerly allowed to each trooper or dragoon for carrying his baggage.

Bidet (n.) A kind of bath tub for sitting baths; a sitz bath.

Bidigitate (a.) Having two fingers or fingerlike projections.

Biding (n.) Residence; habitation.

Bield (n.) A shelter. Same as Beild.

Bield (v. t.) To shelter.

Biennial (a.) Happening, or taking place, once in two years; as, a biennial election.

Biennial (a.) Continuing for two years, and then perishing, as plants which form roots and leaves the first year, and produce fruit the second.

Biennial (n.) Something which takes place or appears once in two years; esp. a biennial examination.

Biennial (n.) A plant which exists or lasts for two years.

Biennially (adv.) Once in two years.

Bier (n.) A handbarrow or portable frame on which a corpse is placed or borne to the grave.

Bier (n.) A count of forty threads in the warp or chain of woolen cloth.

Bierbalk (n.) A church road (e. g., a path across fields) for funerals.

Biestings (n. pl.) Alt. of Beestings

Beestings (n. pl.) The first milk given by a cow after calving.

Bifacial (a.) Having the opposite surfaces alike.

Bifarious (a.) Twofold; arranged in two rows.

Bifarious (a.) Pointing two ways, as leaves that grow only on opposite sides of a branch; in two vertical rows.

Bifariously (adv.) In a bifarious manner.

Biferous (a.) Bearing fruit twice a year.

Biffin (n.) A sort of apple peculiar to Norfolk, Eng.

Biffin (n.) A baked apple pressed down into a flat, round cake; a dried apple.

Bifid (a.) Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening with a cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins.

Bifidate (a.) See Bifid.

Bifilar (a.) Two-threaded; involving the use of two threads; as, bifilar suspension; a bifilar balance.

Biflabellate (a.) Flabellate on both sides.

Biflagellate (a.) Having two long, narrow, whiplike appendages.

Biflorate (a.) Alt. of Biflorous

Biflorous (a.) Bearing two flowers; two-flowered.

Bifold (a.) Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc.

Bifoliate (a.) Having two leaves; two-leaved.

Bifoliolate (a.) Having two leaflets, as some compound leaves.

Biforate (a.) Having two perforations.

Biforine (n.) An oval sac or cell, found in the leaves of certain plants of the order Araceae. It has an opening at each end through which raphides, generated inside, are discharged.

Biforked (a.) Bifurcate.

Biform (a.) Having two forms, bodies, or shapes.

Biformed (a.) Having two forms.

Biformity (n.) A double form.

Biforn (prep. & adv.) Before.

Biforous (a.) See Biforate.

Bifronted (a.) Having two fronts.

Bifurcate (a.) Alt. of Bifurcated

Bifurcated (a.) Two-pronged; forked.

Bifurcate (v. i.) To divide into two branches.

Bifurcation (n.) A forking, or division into two branches.

Bifurcous (a.) See Bifurcate, a.

Big (superl.) Having largeness of size; of much bulk or magnitude; of great size; large.

Big (superl.) Great with young; pregnant; swelling; ready to give birth or produce; -- often figuratively.

Big (superl.) Having greatness, fullness, importance, inflation, distention, etc., whether in a good or a bad sense; as, a big heart; a big voice; big looks; to look big. As applied to looks, it indicates haughtiness or pride.

Big (n.) Alt. of Bigg

Bigg (n.) Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind.

Big (v. t.) Alt. of Bigg

Bigg (v. t.) To build.

Biga (n.) A two-horse chariot.

Bigam (n.) A bigamist.

Bigamist (n.) One who is guilty of bigamy.

Bigamous (a.) Guilty of bigamy; involving bigamy; as, a bigamous marriage.

Bigamy (n.) The offense of marrying one person when already legally married to another.

Bigarreau (n.) Alt. of Bigaroon

Bigaroon (n.) The large white-heart cherry.

Big-bellied (a.) Having a great belly; as, a big-bellied man or flagon; advanced in pregnancy.

Bigeminate (a.) Having a forked petiole, and a pair of leaflets at the end of each division; biconjugate; twice paired; -- said of a decompound leaf.

Bigential (a.) Including two tribes or races of men.

Bigeye (n.) A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large size of the eye.

Bigg (n. & v.) See Big, n. & v.

Biggen (v. t. & i.) To make or become big; to enlarge.

Bigger (a.) compar. of Big.

Biggest (a.) superl. of Big.

Biggin (n.) A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head.

Biggin (n.) A coffeepot with a strainer or perforated metallic vessel for holding the ground coffee, through which boiling water is poured; -- so called from Mr. Biggin, the inventor.

Biggin (v. t.) Alt. of Bigging

Bigging (v. t.) A building.

Biggon (n.) Alt. of Biggonnet

Biggonnet (n.) A cap or hood with pieces covering the ears.

Bigha (n.) A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre to an acre.

Bighorn (n.) The Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis / Caprovis montana).

Bight (v.) A corner, bend, or angle; a hollow; as, the bight of a horse's knee; the bight of an elbow.

Bight (v.) A bend in a coast forming an open bay; as, the Bight of Benin.

Bight (v.) The double part of a rope when folded, in distinction from the ends; that is, a round, bend, or coil not including the ends; a loop.

Biglandular (a.) Having two glands, as a plant.

Bigly (a.) In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently.

Bigness (n.) The state or quality of being big; largeness; size; bulk.

Bignonia (n.) A large genus of American, mostly tropical, climbing shrubs, having compound leaves and showy somewhat tubular flowers. B. capreolata is the cross vine of the Southern United States. The trumpet creeper was formerly considered to be of this genus.

Bignoniaceous (a.) Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the trumpet flower is an example.

Bigot (n.) A hypocrite; esp., a superstitious hypocrite.

Bigot (n.) A person who regards his own faith and views in matters of religion as unquestionably right, and any belief or opinion opposed to or differing from them as unreasonable or wicked. In an extended sense, a person who is intolerant of opinions which conflict with his own, as in politics or morals; one obstinately and blindly devoted to his own church, party, belief, or opinion.

Bigot (a.) Bigoted.

Bigoted (a.) Obstinately and blindly attached to some creed, opinion practice, or ritual; unreasonably devoted to a system or party, and illiberal toward the opinions of others.

Bigotedly (adv.) In the manner of a bigot.

Bigotry (n.) The state of mind of a bigot; obstinate and unreasoning attachment of one's own belief and opinions, with narrow-minded intolerance of beliefs opposed to them.

Bigotry (n.) The practice or tenets of a bigot.

Bigwig (a.) A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society.

Big-wigged (a.) characterized by pomposity of manner.

Bihydroguret (n.) A compound of two atoms of hydrogen with some other substance.

Bijoux (pl. ) of Bijou

Bijou (n.) A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and of elegant workmanship.

Bijoutry (n.) Small articles of virtu, as jewelry, trinkets, etc.

Bijugate (a.) Having two pairs, as of leaflets.

Bijugous (a.) Bijugate.

Bike (n.) A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm.

Bikh (n.) The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted from Aconitum ferox or other species of aconite: also, the plant itself.

Bilabiate (a.) Having two lips, as the corols of certain flowers.

Bilaciniate (a.) Doubly fringed.

Bilalo (n.) A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay of Manila.

Bilamellate (a.) Alt. of Bilamellated

Bilamellated (a.) Formed of two plates, as the stigma of the Mimulus; also, having two elevated ridges, as in the lip of certain flowers.

Bilaminar (a.) Alt. of Bilaminate

Bilaminate (a.) Formed of, or having, two laminae, or thin plates.

Biland (n.) A byland.

Bilander (n.) A small two-masted merchant vessel, fitted only for coasting, or for use in canals, as in Holland.

Bilateral (a.) Having two sides; arranged upon two sides; affecting two sides or two parties.

Bilateral (a.) Of or pertaining to the two sides of a central area or organ, or of a central axis; as, bilateral symmetry in animals, where there is a similarity of parts on the right and left sides of the body.

Bilaterality (n.) State of being bilateral.

Bilberries (pl. ) of Bilberry

Bilberry (n.) The European whortleberry (Vaccinium myrtillus); also, its edible bluish black fruit.

Bilberry (n.) Any similar plant or its fruit; esp., in America, the species Vaccinium myrtilloides, V. caespitosum and V. uliginosum.

Bilboes (pl. ) of Bilbo

Bilbo (n.) A rapier; a sword; so named from Bilbao, in Spain.

Bilbo (n.) A long bar or bolt of iron with sliding shackles, and a lock at the end, to confine the feet of prisoners or offenders, esp. on board of ships.

Bilboquet (n.) The toy called cup and ball.

Bilcock (n.) The European water rail.

Bildstein (n.) Same as Agalmatolite.

Bile (n.) A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline in reaction, secreted by the liver. It passes into the intestines, where it aids in the digestive process. Its characteristic constituents are the bile salts, and coloring matters.

Bile (n.) Bitterness of feeling; choler; anger; ill humor; as, to stir one's bile.

Bile (n.) A boil.

Bilection (n.) That portion of a group of moldings which projects beyond the general surface of a panel; a bolection.

Bilestone (n.) A gallstone, or biliary calculus. See Biliary.

Bilge (n.) The protuberant part of a cask, which is usually in the middle.

Bilge (n.) That part of a ship's hull or bottom which is broadest and most nearly flat, and on which she would rest if aground.

Bilge (n.) Bilge water.

Bilged (imp. & p. p.) of Bilge

Bilging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bilge

Bilge (v. i.) To suffer a fracture in the bilge; to spring a leak by a fracture in the bilge.

Bilge (v. i.) To bulge.

Bilge (v. t.) To fracture the bilge of, or stave in the bottom of (a ship or other vessel).

Bilge (v. t.) To cause to bulge.

Bilgy (a.) Having the smell of bilge water.

Biliary (a.) Relating or belonging to bile; conveying bile; as, biliary acids; biliary ducts.

Biliation (n.) The production and excretion of bile.

Biliferous (a.) Generating bile.

Bilifuscin (n.) A brownish green pigment found in human gallstones and in old bile. It is a derivative of bilirubin.

Bilimbi (n.) Alt. of Bilimbing

Bilimbing (n.) The berries of two East Indian species of Averrhoa, of the Oxalideae or Sorrel family. They are very acid, and highly esteemed when preserved or pickled. The juice is used as a remedy for skin diseases.

Biliment (n.) A woman's ornament; habiliment.

Bilin (n.) A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtained from bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of a mixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids.

Bilinear (a.) Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinear coordinates.

Bilingual (a.) Containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in two languages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary.

Bilingualism (n.) Quality of being bilingual.

Bilinguar (a.) See Bilingual.

Bilinguist (n.) One versed in two languages.

Bilinguous (a.) Having two tongues, or speaking two languages.

Bilious (a.) Of or pertaining to the bile.

Bilious (a.) Disordered in respect to the bile; troubled with an excess of bile; as, a bilious patient; dependent on, or characterized by, an excess of bile; as, bilious symptoms.

Bilious (a.) Choleric; passionate; ill tempered.

Biliousness (n.) The state of being bilious.

Biliprasin (n.) A dark green pigment found in small quantity in human gallstones.

Bilirubin (n.) A reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in that from carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment.

Biliteral (a.) Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskrit verb.

Biliteral (n.) A word, syllable, or root, consisting of two letters.

Biliteralism (n.) The property or state of being biliteral.

Biliverdin (n.) A green pigment present in the bile, formed from bilirubin by oxidation.

Bilked (imp. & p. p.) of Bilk

Bilking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bilk

Bilk (v. t.) To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, by nonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slip to; as, to bilk a creditor.

Bilk (n.) A thwarting an adversary in cribbage by spoiling his score; a balk.

Bilk (n.) A cheat; a trick; a hoax.

Bilk (n.) Nonsense; vain words.

Bilk (n.) A person who tricks a creditor; an untrustworthy, tricky person.

Bill (n.) A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal.

Billed (imp. & p. p.) of Bill

Billing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bill

Bill (v. i.) To strike; to peck.

Bill (v. i.) To join bills, as doves; to caress in fondness.

Bill (n.) The bell, or boom, of the bittern

Bill (n.) A cutting instrument, with hook-shaped point, and fitted with a handle; -- used in pruning, etc.; a billhook. When short, called a hand bill, when long, a hedge bill.

Bill (n.) A weapon of infantry, in the 14th and 15th centuries. A common form of bill consisted of a broad, heavy, double-edged, hook-shaped blade, having a short pike at the back and another at the top, and attached to the end of a long staff.

Bill (n.) One who wields a bill; a billman.

Bill (n.) A pickax, or mattock.

Bill (n.) The extremity of the arm of an anchor; the point of or beyond the fluke.

Bill (v. t.) To work upon ( as to dig, hoe, hack, or chop anything) with a bill.

Bill (n.) A declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant, or a fault committed by some person against a law.

Bill (n.) A writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day or on demand, with or without interest, as may be stated in the document.

Bill (n.) A form or draft of a law, presented to a legislature for enactment; a proposed or projected law.

Bill (n.) A paper, written or printed, and posted up or given away, to advertise something, as a lecture, a play, or the sale of goods; a placard; a poster; a handbill.

Bill (n.) An account of goods sold, services rendered, or work done, with the price or charge; a statement of a creditor's claim, in gross or by items; as, a grocer's bill.

Bill (n.) Any paper, containing a statement of particulars; as, a bill of charges or expenditures; a weekly bill of mortality; a bill of fare, etc.

Bill (v. t.) To advertise by a bill or public notice.

Bill (v. t.) To charge or enter in a bill; as, to bill goods.

Billage (n. / v. t. & i.) Same as Bilge.

Billard (n.) An English fish, allied to the cod; the coalfish.

Billbeetle (n.) Alt. of Billbug

Billbug (n.) A weevil or curculio of various species, as the corn weevil. See Curculio.

Billboard (n.) A piece of thick plank, armed with iron plates, and fixed on the bow or fore channels of a vessel, for the bill or fluke of the anchor to rest on.

Billboard (n.) A flat surface, as of a panel or of a fence, on which bills are posted; a bulletin board.

Bill book () A book in which a person keeps an account of his notes, bills, bills of exchange, etc., thus showing all that he issues and receives.

Bill broker () One who negotiates the discount of bills.

Billed (a.) Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used in composition; as, broad-billed.

Billet (n.) A small paper; a note; a short letter.

Billet (n.) A ticket from a public officer directing soldiers at what house to lodge; as, a billet of residence.

Billeted (imp. & p. p.) of Billet

Billeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Billet

Billet (v. t.) To direct, by a ticket or note, where to lodge. Hence: To quarter, or place in lodgings, as soldiers in private houses.

Billet (n.) A small stick of wood, as for firewood.

Billet (n.) A short bar of metal, as of gold or iron.

Billet (n.) An ornament in Norman work, resembling a billet of wood either square or round.

Billet (n.) A strap which enters a buckle.

Billet (n.) A loop which receives the end of a buckled strap.

Billet (n.) A bearing in the form of an oblong rectangle.

Billets-doux (pl. ) of Billet-doux

Billet-doux (n.) A love letter or note.

Billethead (n.) A round piece of timber at the bow or stern of a whaleboat, around which the harpoon lone is run out when the whale darts off.

Billfish (n.) A name applied to several distinct fishes

Billfish (n.) The garfish (Tylosurus, / Belone, longirostris) and allied species.

Billfish (n.) The saury, a slender fish of the Atlantic coast (Scomberesox saurus).

Billfish (n.) The Tetrapturus albidus, a large oceanic species related to the swordfish; the spearfish.

Billfish (n.) The American fresh-water garpike (Lepidosteus osseus).

Billhead (n.) A printed form, used by merchants in making out bills or rendering accounts.

Bill holder () A person who holds a bill or acceptance.

Bill holder () A device by means of which bills, etc., are held.

Billhook (n.) A thick, heavy knife with a hooked point, used in pruning hedges, etc. When it has a short handle, it is sometimes called a hand bill; when the handle is long, a hedge bill or scimiter.

Billiard (a.) Of or pertaining to the game of billiards.

Billiards (n.) A game played with ivory balls o a cloth-covered, rectangular table, bounded by elastic cushions. The player seeks to impel his ball with his cue so that it shall either strike (carom upon) two other balls, or drive another ball into one of the pockets with which the table sometimes is furnished.

Billing (a. & n.) Caressing; kissing.

Billingsgate (n.) A market near the Billings gate in London, celebrated for fish and foul language.

Billingsgate (n.) Coarsely abusive, foul, or profane language; vituperation; ribaldry.

Billion (n.) According to the French and American method of numeration, a thousand millions, or 1,000,000,000; according to the English method, a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000. See Numeration.

Billmen (pl. ) of Billman

Billman (n.) One who uses, or is armed with, a bill or hooked ax.

Billon (n.) An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copper or other base metal, used in coinage.

Billot (n.) Bullion in the bar or mass.

Billow (n.) A great wave or surge of the sea or other water, caused usually by violent wind.

Billow (n.) A great wave or flood of anything.

Billowed (imp. & p. p.) of Billow

Billowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Billow

Billow (v. i.) To surge; to rise and roll in waves or surges; to undulate.

Billowy (a.) Of or pertaining to billows; swelling or swollen into large waves; full of billows or surges; resembling billows.

Billposter (n.) Alt. of Billsticker

Billsticker (n.) One whose occupation is to post handbills or posters in public places.

Billy (n.) A club; esp., a policeman's club.

Billy (n.) A slubbing or roving machine.

Billyboy (n.) A flat-bottomed river barge or coasting vessel.

Billy goat () A male goat.

Bilobate (a.) Divided into two lobes or segments.

Bilobed (a.) Bilobate.

Bilocation (n.) Double location; the state or power of being in two places at the same instant; -- a miraculous power attributed to some of the saints.

Bilocular (a.) Divided into two cells or compartments; as, a bilocular pericarp.

Bilsted (n.) See Sweet gum.

Biltong (n.) Lean meat cut into strips and sun-dried.

Bimaculate (a.) Having, or marked with, two spots.

Bimana (n. pl.) Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man as a special order of Mammalia.

Bimanous (a.) Having two hands; two-handed.

Bimarginate (a.) Having a double margin, as certain shells.

Bimastism (n.) The condition of having two mammae or teats.

Bimedial (a.) Applied to a line which is the sum of two lines commensurable only in power (as the side and diagonal of a square).

Bimembral (a.) Having two members; as, a bimembral sentence.

Bimensal (a.) See Bimonthly, a.

Bimestrial (a.) Continuing two months.

Bimetallic (a.) Of or relating to, or using, a double metallic standard (as gold and silver) for a system of coins or currency.

Bimetallism (n.) The legalized use of two metals (as gold and silver) in the currency of a country, at a fixed relative value; -- in opposition to monometallism.

Bimetallist (n.) An advocate of bimetallism.

Bimonthly (a.) Occurring, done, or coming, once in two months; as, bimonthly visits; bimonthly publications.

Bimonthly (n.) A bimonthly publication.

Bimonthly (adv.) Once in two months.

Bimuscular (a.) Having two adductor muscles, as a bivalve mollusk.

Bin (n.) A box, frame, crib, or inclosed place, used as a receptacle for any commodity; as, a corn bin; a wine bin; a coal bin.

Binned (imp. & p. p.) of Bin

Binning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bin

Bin (v. t.) To put into a bin; as, to bin wine.

Bin () An old form of Be and Been.

Bin- () A euphonic form of the prefix Bi-.

Binal (a.) Twofold; double.

Binarseniate (n.) A salt having two equivalents of arsenic acid to one of the base.

Binary (a.) Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterized by two (things).

Binary (n.) That which is constituted of two figures, things, or parts; two; duality.

Binate (a.) Double; growing in pairs or couples.

Binaural (a.) Of or pertaining to, or used by, both ears.

Bound (imp.) of Bind

Bound (p. p.) of Bind

Bounden () of Bind

Binding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bind

Bind (v. t.) To tie, or confine with a cord, band, ligature, chain, etc.; to fetter; to make fast; as, to bind grain in bundles; to bind a prisoner.

Bind (v. t.) To confine, restrain, or hold by physical force or influence of any kind; as, attraction binds the planets to the sun; frost binds the earth, or the streams.

Bind (v. t.) To cover, as with a bandage; to bandage or dress; -- sometimes with up; as, to bind up a wound.

Bind (v. t.) To make fast ( a thing) about or upon something, as by tying; to encircle with something; as, to bind a belt about one; to bind a compress upon a part.

Bind (v. t.) To prevent or restrain from customary or natural action; as, certain drugs bind the bowels.

Bind (v. t.) To protect or strengthen by a band or binding, as the edge of a carpet or garment.

Bind (v. t.) To sew or fasten together, and inclose in a cover; as, to bind a book.

Bind (v. t.) Fig.: To oblige, restrain, or hold, by authority, law, duty, promise, vow, affection, or other moral tie; as, to bind the conscience; to bind by kindness; bound by affection; commerce binds nations to each other.

Bind (v. t.) To bring (any one) under definite legal obligations; esp. under the obligation of a bond or covenant.

Bind (v. t.) To place under legal obligation to serve; to indenture; as, to bind an apprentice; -- sometimes with out; as, bound out to service.

Bind (v. i.) To tie; to confine by any ligature.

Bind (v. i.) To contract; to grow hard or stiff; to cohere or stick together in a mass; as, clay binds by heat.

Bind (v. i.) To be restrained from motion, or from customary or natural action, as by friction.

Bind (v. i.) To exert a binding or restraining influence.

Bind (n.) That which binds or ties.

Bind (n.) Any twining or climbing plant or stem, esp. a hop vine; a bine.

Bind (n.) Indurated clay, when much mixed with the oxide of iron.

Bind (n.) A ligature or tie for grouping notes.

Binder (n.) One who binds; as, a binder of sheaves; one whose trade is to bind; as, a binder of books.

Binder (n.) Anything that binds, as a fillet, cord, rope, or band; a bandage; -- esp. the principal piece of timber intended to bind together any building.

Bindery (n.) A place where books, or other articles, are bound; a bookbinder's establishment.

Bindheimite (n.) An amorphous antimonate of lead, produced from the alteration of other ores, as from jamesonite.

Binding (a.) That binds; obligatory.

Binding (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, binds.

Binding (n.) Anything that binds; a bandage; the cover of a book, or the cover with the sewing, etc.; something that secures the edge of cloth from raveling.

Binding (pl.) The transoms, knees, beams, keelson, and other chief timbers used for connecting and strengthening the parts of a vessel.

Bindingly (adv.) So as to bind.

Bindingness (n.) The condition or property of being binding; obligatory quality.

Bindweed (n.) A plant of the genus Convolvulus; as, greater bindweed (C. Sepium); lesser bindweed (C. arvensis); the white, the blue, the Syrian, bindweed. The black bryony, or Tamus, is called black bindweed, and the Smilax aspera, rough bindweed.

Bine (n.) The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbing plant.

Binervate (a.) Two-nerved; -- applied to leaves which have two longitudinal ribs or nerves.

Binervate (a.) Having only two nerves, as the wings of some insects.

Bing (n.) A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood.

Biniodide (n.) Same as Diiodide.

Bink (n.) A bench.

Binnacle (n.) A case or box placed near the helmsman, containing the compass of a ship, and a light to show it at night.

Binny (n.) A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni), found in the Nile, and much esteemed for food.

Binocle (n.) A dioptric telescope, fitted with two tubes joining, so as to enable a person to view an object with both eyes at once; a double-barreled field glass or an opera glass.

Binocular (a.) Having two eyes.

Binocular (a.) Pertaining to both eyes; employing both eyes at once; as, binocular vision.

Binocular (a.) Adapted to the use of both eyes; as, a binocular microscope or telescope.

Binocular (n.) A binocular glass, whether opera glass, telescope, or microscope.

Binocularly (adv.) In a binocular manner.

Binoculate (a.) Having two eyes.

Binomial (n.) An expression consisting of two terms connected by the sign plus (+) or minus (-); as, a + b, or 7 - 3.

Binomial (a.) Consisting of two terms; pertaining to binomials; as, a binomial root.

Binomial (a.) Having two names; -- used of the system by which every animal and plant receives two names, the one indicating the genus, the other the species, to which it belongs.

Binominal (a.) Of or pertaining to two names; binomial.

Binominous (a.) Binominal.

Binotonous (a.) Consisting of two notes; as, a binotonous cry.

Binous (a.) Same as Binate.

Binoxalate (n.) A salt having two equivalents of oxalic acid to one of the base; an acid oxalate.

Binoxide (n.) Same as Dioxide.

Binturong (n.) A small Asiatic civet of the genus Arctilis.

Binuclear (a.) Alt. of Binucleate

Binucleate (a.) Having two nuclei; as, binucleate cells.

Binucleolate (a.) Having two nucleoli.

Bioblast (n.) Same as Bioplast.

Biocellate (a.) Having two ocelli (eyelike spots); -- said of a wing, etc.

Biochemistry (n.) The chemistry of living organisms; the chemistry of the processes incidental to, and characteristic of, life.

Biodynamics (n.) The doctrine of vital forces or energy.

Biogen (n.) Bioplasm.

Biogenesis (n.) Alt. of Biogeny

Biogeny (n.) A doctrine that the genesis or production of living organisms can take place only through the agency of living germs or parents; -- opposed to abiogenesis.

Biogeny (n.) Life development generally.

Biogenetic (a.) Pertaining to biogenesis.

Biogenist (n.) A believer in the theory of biogenesis.

Biognosis (n.) The investigation of life.

Biographer (n.) One who writes an account or history of the life of a particular person; a writer of lives, as Plutarch.

Biographic (a.) Alt. of Biographical

Biographical (a.) Of or pertaining to biography; containing biography.

Biographize (v. t.) To write a history of the life of.

Biographies (pl. ) of Biography

Biography (n.) The written history of a person's life.

Biography (n.) Biographical writings in general.

Biologic (a.) Alt. of Biological

Biological (a.) Of or relating to biology.

Biologist (n.) A student of biology; one versed in the science of biology.

Biology (n.) The science of life; that branch of knowledge which treats of living matter as distinct from matter which is not living; the study of living tissue. It has to do with the origin, structure, development, function, and distribution of animals and plants.

Biolysis (n.) The destruction of life.

Biolytic (a.) Relating to the destruction of life.

Biomagnetic (a.) Relating to biomagnetism.

Biomagnetism (n.) Animal magnetism.

Biometry (n.) Measurement of life; calculation of the probable duration of human life.

Bion (p. pr.) The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness and independence of function, in distinction from the morphological individual or morphon.

Bionomy (n.) Physiology.

Biophor Biophore (n.) One of the smaller vital units of a cell, the bearer of vitality and heredity. See Pangen, in Supplement.

Bioplasm (n.) A name suggested by Dr. Beale for the germinal matter supposed to be essential to the functions of all living beings; the material through which every form of life manifests itself; unaltered protoplasm.

Bioplasmic (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, bioplasm.

Bioplast (n.) A tiny mass of bioplasm, in itself a living unit and having formative power, as a living white blood corpuscle; bioblast.

Bioplastic (a.) Bioplasmic.

Biorgan (n.) A physiological organ; a living organ; an organ endowed with function; -- distinguished from idorgan.

Biostatics (n.) The physical phenomena of organized bodies, in opposition to their organic or vital phenomena.

Biostatistics (n.) Vital statistics.

Biotaxy (n.) The classification of living organisms according to their structural character; taxonomy.

Biotic (a.) Relating to life; as, the biotic principle.

Biotite (n.) Mica containing iron and magnesia, generally of a black or dark green color; -- a common constituent of crystalline rocks. See Mica.

Bipalmate (a.) Palmately branched, with the branches again palmated.

Biparietal (a.) Of or pertaining to the diameter of the cranium, from one parietal fossa to the other.

Biparous (a.) Bringing forth two at a birth.

Bipartible (a.) Capable of being divided into two parts.

Bipartient (p. pr.) Dividing into two parts.

Bipartient (n.) A number that divides another into two equal parts without a remainder.

Bipartile (a.) Divisible into two parts.

Bipartite (a.) Being in two parts; having two correspondent parts, as a legal contract or writing, one for each party; shared by two; as, a bipartite treaty.

Bipartite (a.) Divided into two parts almost to the base, as a leaf; consisting of two parts or subdivisions.

Bipartition (n.) The act of dividing into two parts, or of making two correspondent parts, or the state of being so divided.

Bipectinate (a.) Alt. of Bipectinated

Bipectinated (a.) Having two margins toothed like a comb.

Biped (n.) A two-footed animal, as man.

Biped (a.) Having two feet; two-footed.

Bipedal (n.) Having two feet; biped.

Bipedal (n.) Pertaining to a biped.

Bipeltate (a.) Having a shell or covering like a double shield.

Bipennate (a.) Alt. of Bipennated

Bipennated (a.) Having two wings.

Bipennis (n.) An ax with an edge or blade on each side of the handle.

Bipetalous (a.) Having two petals.

Bipinnaria (n.) The larva of certain starfishes as developed in the free-swimming stage.

Bipinnate (a.) Alt. of Bipinnated

Bipinnated (a.) Twice pinnate.

Bipinnatifid (a.) Doubly pinnatifid.

Biplicate (a.) Twice folded together.

Biplicity (n.) The state of being twice folded; reduplication.

Bipolar (a.) Doubly polar; having two poles; as, a bipolar cell or corpuscle.

Bipolarity (n.) Bipolar quality.

Bipont (a.) Alt. of Bipontine

Bipontine (a.) Relating to books printed at Deuxponts, or Bipontium (Zweibrucken), in Bavaria.

Bipunctate (a.) Having two punctures, or spots.

Bipunctual (a.) Having two points.

Bipupillate (a.) Having an eyelike spot on the wing, with two dots within it of a different color, as in some butterflies.

Bipyramidal (a.) Consisting of two pyramids placed base to base; having a pyramid at each of the extremities of a prism, as in quartz crystals.

Biquadrate (n.) The fourth power, or the square of the square. Thus 4x4=16, the square of 4, and 16x16=256, the biquadrate of 4.

Biquadratic (a.) Of or pertaining to the biquadrate, or fourth power.

Biquadratic (n.) A biquadrate.

Biquadratic (n.) A biquadratic equation.

Biquintile (n.) An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other by twice the fifth part of a great circle -- that is, twice 72 degrees.

Biradiate (a.) Alt. of Biradiated

Biradiated (a.) Having two rays; as, a biradiate fin.

Biramous (a.) Having, or consisting of, two branches.

Birches (pl. ) of Birch

Birch (n.) A tree of several species, constituting the genus Betula; as, the white or common birch (B. alba) (also called silver birch and lady birch); the dwarf birch (B. glandulosa); the paper or canoe birch (B. papyracea); the yellow birch (B. lutea); the black or cherry birch (B. lenta).

Birch (n.) The wood or timber of the birch.

Birch (n.) A birch twig or birch twigs, used for flogging.

Birch (n.) A birch-bark canoe.

Birch (a.) Of or pertaining to the birch; birchen.

Birched (imp. & p. p.) of Birch

Birching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Birch

Birch (v. t.) To whip with a birch rod or twig; to flog.

Birchen (a.) Of or relating to birch.

Bird (n.) Orig., a chicken; the young of a fowl; a young eaglet; a nestling; and hence, a feathered flying animal (see 2).

Bird (n.) A warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate provided with wings. See Aves.

Bird (n.) Specifically, among sportsmen, a game bird.

Bird (n.) Fig.: A girl; a maiden.

Bird (v. i.) To catch or shoot birds.

Bird (v. i.) Hence: To seek for game or plunder; to thieve.

Birdbolt (n.) A short blunt arrow for killing birds without piercing them.

Birdbolt (n.) Anything which smites without penetrating.

Bird cage (n.) Alt. of Birdcage

Birdcage (n.) A cage for confining birds.

Birdcall (n.) A sound made in imitation of the note or cry of a bird for the purpose of decoying the bird or its mate.

Birdcall (n.) An instrument of any kind, as a whistle, used in making the sound of a birdcall.

Birdcatcher (n.) One whose employment it is to catch birds; a fowler.

Birdcatching (n.) The art, act, or occupation or catching birds or wild fowls.

Bird cherry () A shrub (Prunus Padus ) found in Northern and Central Europe. It bears small black cherries.

Birder (n.) A birdcatcher.

Bird-eyed (a.) Quick-sighted; catching a glance as one goes.

Bird fancier () One who takes pleasure in rearing or collecting rare or curious birds.

Bird fancier () One who has for sale the various kinds of birds which are kept in cages.

Birdie (n.) A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name.

Birdikin (n.) A young bird.

Birding (n.) Birdcatching or fowling.

Birdlet (n.) A little bird; a nestling.

Birdlike (a.) Resembling a bird.

Birdlime (n.) An extremely adhesive viscid substance, usually made of the middle bark of the holly, by boiling, fermenting, and cleansing it. When a twig is smeared with this substance it will hold small birds which may light upon it. Hence: Anything which insnares.

Birdlime (v. t.) To smear with birdlime; to catch with birdlime; to insnare.

Birdling (n.) A little bird; a nestling.

Birdman (n.) A fowler or birdcatcher.

Bird of paradise () The name of several very beautiful birds of the genus Paradisea and allied genera, inhabiting New Guinea and the adjacent islands. The males have brilliant colors, elegant plumes, and often remarkable tail feathers.

Bird pepper () A species of capsicum (Capsicum baccatum), whose small, conical, coral-red fruit is among the most piquant of all red peppers.

Bird's-beak (n.) A molding whose section is thought to resemble a beak.

Birdseed (n.) Canary seed, hemp, millet or other small seeds used for feeding caged birds.

Bird's-eye (a.) Seen from above, as if by a flying bird; embraced at a glance; hence, general; not minute, or entering into details; as, a bird's-eye view.

Bird's-eye (a.) Marked with spots resembling bird's eyes; as, bird's-eye diaper; bird's-eye maple.

Bird's-eye (n.) A plant with a small bright flower, as the Adonis or pheasant's eye, the mealy primrose (Primula farinosa), and species of Veronica, Geranium, etc.

Bird's-eye maple () See under Maple.

Bird's-foot (n.) A papilionaceous plant, the Ornithopus, having a curved, cylindrical pod tipped with a short, clawlike point.

Bird's-mouth (n.) An interior angle or notch cut across a piece of timber, for the reception of the edge of another, as that in a rafter to be laid on a plate; -- commonly called crow's-foot in the United States.

Bird's nest (n.) Alt. of Bird's-nest

Bird's-nest (n.) The nest in which a bird lays eggs and hatches her young.

Bird's-nest (n.) The nest of a small swallow (Collocalia nidifica and several allied species), of China and the neighboring countries, which is mixed with soups.

Bird's-nest (n.) An orchideous plant with matted roots, of the genus Neottia (N. nidus-avis.)

Bird's-nesting (n.) Hunting for, or taking, birds' nests or their contents.

Bird's-tongue (n.) The knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare).

Bird-witted (a.) Flighty; passing rapidly from one subject to another; not having the faculty of attention.

Birectangular (a.) Containing or having two right angles; as, a birectangular spherical triangle.

Bireme (n.) An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars.

Biretta (n.) Same as Berretta.

Birgander (n.) See Bergander.

Birk (n.) A birch tree.

Birk (n.) A small European minnow (Leuciscus phoxinus).

Birken (v. t.) To whip with a birch or rod.

Birken (a.) Birchen; as, birken groves.

Birkie (n.) A lively or mettlesome fellow.

Birl (v. t. & i.) To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin.

Birl (v. t. & i.) To pour (beer or wine); to ply with drink; to drink; to carouse.

Birlaw (n.) A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic or local law or by-law.

Birostrate (a.) Alt. of Birostrated

Birostrated (a.) Having a double beak, or two processes resembling beaks.

Birred (imp. & p. p.) of Birr

Birring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Birr

Birr (v. i.) To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels in motion.

Birr (n.) A whirring sound, as of a spinning wheel.

Birr (n.) A rush or impetus; force.

Birrus (n.) A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in the Middle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders or over the head.

Birse (n.) A bristle or bristles.

Birt (n.) A fish of the turbot kind; the brill.

Birth (n.) The act or fact of coming into life, or of being born; -- generally applied to human beings; as, the birth of a son.

Birth (n.) Lineage; extraction; descent; sometimes, high birth; noble extraction.

Birth (n.) The condition to which a person is born; natural state or position; inherited disposition or tendency.

Birth (n.) The act of bringing forth; as, she had two children at a birth.

Birth (n.) That which is born; that which is produced, whether animal or vegetable.

Birth (n.) Origin; beginning; as, the birth of an empire.

Birth (n.) See Berth.

Birthday (n.) The day in which any person is born; day of origin or commencement.

Birthday (n.) The day of the month in which a person was born, in whatever succeeding year it may recur; the anniversary of one's birth.

Birthday (a.) Of or pertaining to the day of birth, or its anniversary; as, birthday gifts or festivities.

Birthdom (n.) The land of one's birth; one's inheritance.

Birthing (n.) Anything added to raise the sides of a ship.

Birthless (a.) Of mean extraction.

Birthmark (n.) Some peculiar mark or blemish on the body at birth.

Birthnight (n.) The night in which a person is born; the anniversary of that night in succeeding years.

Birthplace (n.) The town, city, or country, where a person is born; place of origin or birth, in its more general sense.

Birthright (n.) Any right, privilege, or possession to which a person is entitled by birth, such as an estate descendible by law to an heir, or civil liberty under a free constitution; esp. the rights or inheritance of the first born.

Birthroot (n.) An herbaceous plant (Trillium erectum), and its astringent rootstock, which is said to have medicinal properties.

Birthwort (n.) A genus of herbs and shrubs (Aristolochia), reputed to have medicinal properties.

Bis (adv.) Twice; -- a word showing that something is, or is to be, repeated; as a passage of music, or an item in accounts.

Bis- (pref.) A form of Bi-, sometimes used before s, c, or a vowel.

Bisa antelope () See Oryx.

Bisaccate (a.) Having two little bags, sacs, or pouches.

Biscayan (a.) Of or pertaining to Biscay in Spain.

Biscayan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Biscay.

Biscotin (n.) A confection made of flour, sugar, marmalade, and eggs; a sweet biscuit.

Biscuit (n.) A kind of unraised bread, of many varieties, plain, sweet, or fancy, formed into flat cakes, and bakes hard; as, ship biscuit.

Biscuit (n.) A small loaf or cake of bread, raised and shortened, or made light with soda or baking powder. Usually a number are baked in the same pan, forming a sheet or card.

Biscuit (n.) Earthen ware or porcelain which has undergone the first baking, before it is subjected to the glazing.

Biscuit (n.) A species of white, unglazed porcelain, in which vases, figures, and groups are formed in miniature.

Biscutate (a.) Resembling two bucklers placed side by side.

Bise (n.) A cold north wind which prevails on the northern coasts of the Mediterranean and in Switzerland, etc.; -- nearly the same as the mistral.

Bise (n.) See Bice.

Bisected (imp. & p. p.) of Bisect

Bisecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bisect

Bisect (v. t.) To cut or divide into two parts.

Bisect (v. t.) To divide into two equal parts.

Bisection (n.) Division into two parts, esp. two equal parts.

Bisector (n.) One who, or that which, bisects; esp. (Geom.) a straight line which bisects an angle.

Bisectrix (n.) The line bisecting the angle between the optic axes of a biaxial crystal.

Bisegment (n.) One of tow equal parts of a line, or other magnitude.

Biseptate (a.) With two partitions or septa.

Biserial (a.) Alt. of Biseriate

Biseriate (a.) In two rows or series.

Biserrate (a.) Doubly serrate, or having the serratures serrate, as in some leaves.

Biserrate (a.) Serrate on both sides, as some antennae.

Bisetose (a.) Alt. of Bisetous

Bisetous (a.) Having two bristles.

Bisexous (a.) Bisexual.

Bisexual (a.) Of both sexes; hermaphrodite; as a flower with stamens and pistil, or an animal having ovaries and testes.

Bisexuous (a.) Bisexual.

Biseye () p. p. of Besee.

Bish (n.) Same as Bikh.

Bishop (n.) A spiritual overseer, superintendent, or director.

Bishop (n.) In the Roman Catholic, Greek, and Anglican or Protestant Episcopal churches, one ordained to the highest order of the ministry, superior to the priesthood, and generally claiming to be a successor of the Apostles. The bishop is usually the spiritual head or ruler of a diocese, bishopric, or see.

Bishop (n.) In the Methodist Episcopal and some other churches, one of the highest church officers or superintendents.

Bishop (n.) A piece used in the game of chess, bearing a representation of a bishop's miter; -- formerly called archer.

Bishop (n.) A beverage, being a mixture of wine, oranges or lemons, and sugar.

Bishop (n.) An old name for a woman's bustle.

Bishoped (imp. & p. p.) of Bishop

Bishoping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bishop

Bishop (v. t.) To admit into the church by confirmation; to confirm; hence, to receive formally to favor.

Bishoped (imp. & p. p.) of Bishop

Bishoping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bishop

Bishop (v. t.) To make seem younger, by operating on the teeth; as, to bishop an old horse or his teeth.

Bishopdom (n.) Jurisdiction of a bishop; episcopate.

Bishoplike (a.) Resembling a bishop; belonging to a bishop.

Bishoply (a.) Bishoplike; episcopal.

Bishoply (adv.) In the manner of a bishop.

Bishopric (n.) A diocese; the district over which the jurisdiction of a bishop extends.

Bishopric (n.) The office of a spiritual overseer, as of an apostle, bishop, or presbyter.

Bishop's cap () A plant of the genus Mitella; miterwort.

Bishop sleeve () A wide sleeve, once worn by women.

Bishop's length () A canvas for a portrait measuring 58 by 94 inches. The half bishop measures 45 by 56.

Bishop-stool (n.) A bishop's seat or see.

Bishop's-weed (n.) An umbelliferous plant of the genus Ammi.

Bishop's-weed (n.) Goutweed (Aegopodium podagraria).

Bishop's-wort (n.) Wood betony (Stachys betonica); also, the plant called fennel flower (Nigella Damascena), or devil-in-a-bush.

Bisie (v. t.) To busy; to employ.

Bisilicate (n.) A salt of metasilicic acid; -- so called because the ratio of the oxygen of the silica to the oxygen of the base is as two to one. The bisilicates include many of the most common and important minerals.

Bisk (n.) Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together.

Bisk (n.) See Bisque.

Bismare (n.) Alt. of Bismer

Bismer (n.) Shame; abuse.

Bismer (n.) A rule steelyard.

Bismer (n.) The fifteen-spined (Gasterosteus spinachia).

Bismillah (interj.) An adjuration or exclamation common among the Mohammedans.

Bismite (n.) Bismuth trioxide, or bismuth ocher.

Bismuth (n.) One of the elements; a metal of a reddish white color, crystallizing in rhombohedrons. It is somewhat harder than lead, and rather brittle; masses show broad cleavage surfaces when broken across. It melts at 507 Fahr., being easily fused in the flame of a candle. It is found in a native state, and as a constituent of some minerals. Specific gravity 9.8. Atomic weight 207.5. Symbol Bi.

Bismuthal (a.) Containing bismuth.

Bismuthic (a.) Of or pertaining to bismuth; containing bismuth, when this element has its higher valence; as, bismuthic oxide.

Bismuthiferous (a.) Containing bismuth.

Bismuthine (n.) Alt. of Bismuthinite

Bismuthinite (n.) Native bismuth sulphide; -- sometimes called bismuthite.

Bismuthous (a.) Of, or containing, bismuth, when this element has its lower valence.

Bismuthyl (n.) Hydrous carbonate of bismuth, an earthy mineral of a dull white or yellowish color.

Bison (n.) The aurochs or European bison.

Bison (n.) The American bison buffalo (Bison Americanus), a large, gregarious bovine quadruped with shaggy mane and short black horns, which formerly roamed in herds over most of the temperate portion of North America, but is now restricted to very limited districts in the region of the Rocky Mountains, and is rapidly decreasing in numbers.

Bispinose (a.) Having two spines.

Bisque (n.) Unglazed white porcelain.

Bisque (n.) A point taken by the receiver of odds in the game of tennis; also, an extra innings allowed to a weaker player in croquet.

Bisque (n.) A white soup made of crayfish.

Bissextile (n.) Leap year; every fourth year, in which a day is added to the month of February on account of the excess of the tropical year (365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 46 s.) above 365 days. But one day added every four years is equivalent to six hours each year, which is 11 m. 14 s. more than the excess of the real year. Hence, it is necessary to suppress the bissextile day at the end of every century which is not divisible by 400, while it is retained at the end of those which are divisible by 400.

Bissextile (a.) Pertaining to leap year.

Bisson (a.) Purblind; blinding.

Bister (n.) Alt. of Bistre

Bistre (n.) A dark brown pigment extracted from the soot of wood.

Bistipuled (a.) Having two stipules.

Bistort (n.) An herbaceous plant of the genus Polygonum, section Bistorta; snakeweed; adderwort. Its root is used in medicine as an astringent.

Bistouries (pl. ) of Bistoury

Bistoury (n.) A surgical instrument consisting of a slender knife, either straight or curved, generally used by introducing it beneath the part to be divided, and cutting towards the surface.

Bistre (n.) See Bister.

Bisulcate (a.) Having two grooves or furrows.

Bisulcate (a.) Cloven; said of a foot or hoof.

Bisulcous (a.) Bisulcate.

Bisulphate (n.) A sulphate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the normal sulphates; an acid sulphate.

Bisulphide (n.) A sulphide having two atoms of sulphur in the molecule; a disulphide, as in iron pyrites, FeS2; -- less frequently called bisulphuret.

Bisulphite (n.) A salt of sulphurous acid in which the base replaces but half the hydrogen of the acid; an acid sulphite.

Bisulphuret (n.) See Bisulphide.

Bit (v.) The part of a bridle, usually of iron, which is inserted in the mouth of a horse, and having appendages to which the reins are fastened.

Bit (v.) Fig.: Anything which curbs or restrains.

Bitted (imp. & p. p.) of Bit

Bitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bit

Bit (v. t.) To put a bridle upon; to put the bit in the mouth of.

Bit () imp. & p. p. of Bite.

Bit (v.) A part of anything, such as may be bitten off or taken into the mouth; a morsel; a bite. Hence: A small piece of anything; a little; a mite.

Bit (v.) Somewhat; something, but not very great.

Bit (v.) A tool for boring, of various forms and sizes, usually turned by means of a brace or bitstock. See Bitstock.

Bit (v.) The part of a key which enters the lock and acts upon the bolt and tumblers.

Bit (v.) The cutting iron of a plane.

Bit (v.) In the Southern and Southwestern States, a small silver coin (as the real) formerly current; commonly, one worth about 12 1/2 cents; also, the sum of 12 1/2 cents.

Bit () 3d sing. pr. of Bid, for biddeth.

Bitake (v. t.) To commend; to commit.

Bitangent (a.) Possessing the property of touching at two points.

Bitangent (n.) A line that touches a curve in two points.

Bitartrate (n.) A salt of tartaric acid in which the base replaces but half the acid hydrogen; an acid tartrate, as cream of tartar.

Bitch (n.) The female of the canine kind, as of the dog, wolf, and fox.

Bitch (n.) An opprobrious name for a woman, especially a lewd woman.

Bit (imp.) of Bite

Bitten (p. p.) of Bite

Bit () of Bite

Biting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bite

Bite (v. t.) To seize with the teeth, so that they enter or nip the thing seized; to lacerate, crush, or wound with the teeth; as, to bite an apple; to bite a crust; the dog bit a man.

Bite (v. t.) To puncture, abrade, or sting with an organ (of some insects) used in taking food.

Bite (v. t.) To cause sharp pain, or smarting, to; to hurt or injure, in a literal or a figurative sense; as, pepper bites the mouth.

Bite (v. t.) To cheat; to trick; to take in.

Bite (v. t.) To take hold of; to hold fast; to adhere to; as, the anchor bites the ground.

Bite (v. i.) To seize something forcibly with the teeth; to wound with the teeth; to have the habit of so doing; as, does the dog bite?

Bite (v. i.) To cause a smarting sensation; to have a property which causes such a sensation; to be pungent; as, it bites like pepper or mustard.

Bite (v. i.) To cause sharp pain; to produce anguish; to hurt or injure; to have the property of so doing.

Bite (v. i.) To take a bait into the mouth, as a fish does; hence, to take a tempting offer.

Bite (v. i.) To take or keep a firm hold; as, the anchor bites.

Bite (v.) The act of seizing with the teeth or mouth; the act of wounding or separating with the teeth or mouth; a seizure with the teeth or mouth, as of a bait; as, to give anything a hard bite.

Bite (v.) The act of puncturing or abrading with an organ for taking food, as is done by some insects.

Bite (v.) The wound made by biting; as, the pain of a dog's or snake's bite; the bite of a mosquito.

Bite (v.) A morsel; as much as is taken at once by biting.

Bite (v.) The hold which the short end of a lever has upon the thing to be lifted, or the hold which one part of a machine has upon another.

Bite (v.) A cheat; a trick; a fraud.

Bite (v.) A sharper; one who cheats.

Bite (v.) A blank on the edge or corner of a page, owing to a portion of the frisket, or something else, intervening between the type and paper.

Biter (n.) One who, or that which, bites; that which bites often, or is inclined to bite, as a dog or fish.

Biter (n.) One who cheats; a sharper.

Biternate (a.) Doubly ternate, as when a petiole has three ternate leaflets.

Bitheism (n.) Belief in the existence of two gods; dualism.

Biting (a.) That bites; sharp; cutting; sarcastic; caustic.

Biting in () The process of corroding or eating into metallic plates, by means of an acid. See Etch.

Bitingly (adv.) In a biting manner.

Bitless (a.) Not having a bit or bridle.

Bitstock (n.) A stock or handle for holding and rotating a bit; a brace.

Bitt (n.) See Bitts.

Bitt (v. t.) To put round the bitts; as, to bitt the cable, in order to fasten it or to slacken it gradually, which is called veering away.

Bittacle (n.) A binnacle.

Bitten () p. p. of Bite.

Bitten (a.) Terminating abruptly, as if bitten off; premorse.

Bitter (n.) AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts.

Bitter (v. t.) Having a peculiar, acrid, biting taste, like that of wormwood or an infusion of hops; as, a bitter medicine; bitter as aloes.

Bitter (v. t.) Causing pain or smart; piercing; painful; sharp; severe; as, a bitter cold day.

Bitter (v. t.) Causing, or fitted to cause, pain or distress to the mind; calamitous; poignant.

Bitter (v. t.) Characterized by sharpness, severity, or cruelty; harsh; stern; virulent; as, bitter reproach.

Bitter (v. t.) Mournful; sad; distressing; painful; pitiable.

Bitter (n.) Any substance that is bitter. See Bitters.

Bitter (v. t.) To make bitter.

Bitterbump (n.) the butterbump or bittern.

Bitterful (a.) Full of bitterness.

Bittering (n.) A bitter compound used in adulterating beer; bittern.

Bitterish (a.) Somewhat bitter.

Bitterling (n.) A roachlike European fish (Rhodima amarus).

Bitterly (adv.) In a bitter manner.

Bittern (n.) A wading bird of the genus Botaurus, allied to the herons, of various species.

Bittern (a.) The brine which remains in salt works after the salt is concreted, having a bitter taste from the chloride of magnesium which it contains.

Bittern (a.) A very bitter compound of quassia, cocculus Indicus, etc., used by fraudulent brewers in adulterating beer.

Bitterness (n.) The quality or state of being bitter, sharp, or acrid, in either a literal or figurative sense; implacableness; resentfulness; severity; keenness of reproach or sarcasm; deep distress, grief, or vexation of mind.

Bitterness (n.) A state of extreme impiety or enmity to God.

Bitterness (n.) Dangerous error, or schism, tending to draw persons to apostasy.

Bitternut (n.) The swamp hickory (Carya amara). Its thin-shelled nuts are bitter.

Bitterroot (n.) A plant (Lewisia rediviva) allied to the purslane, but with fleshy, farinaceous roots, growing in the mountains of Idaho, Montana, etc. It gives the name to the Bitter Root mountains and river. The Indians call both the plant and the river Spaet'lum.

Bitters (n. pl.) A liquor, generally spirituous in which a bitter herb, leaf, or root is steeped.

Bitter spar () A common name of dolomite; -- so called because it contains magnesia, the soluble salts of which are bitter. See Dolomite.

Bittersweet (a.) Sweet and then bitter or bitter and then sweet; esp. sweet with a bitter after taste; hence (Fig.), pleasant but painful.

Bittersweet (n.) Anything which is bittersweet.

Bittersweet (n.) A kind of apple so called.

Bittersweet (n.) A climbing shrub, with oval coral-red berries (Solanum dulcamara); woody nightshade. The whole plant is poisonous, and has a taste at first sweetish and then bitter. The branches are the officinal dulcamara.

Bittersweet (n.) An American woody climber (Celastrus scandens), whose yellow capsules open late in autumn, and disclose the red aril which covers the seeds; -- also called Roxbury waxwork.

Bitterweed (n.) A species of Ambrosia (A. artemisiaefolia); Roman worm wood.

Bitterwood (n.) A West Indian tree (Picraena excelsa) from the wood of which the bitter drug Jamaica quassia is obtained.

Bitterwort (n.) The yellow gentian (Gentiana lutea), which has a very bitter taste.

Bittock (n.) A small bit of anything, of indefinite size or quantity; a short distance.

Bittor Bittour (n.) The bittern.

Bitts (n. pl.) A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the fore part of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides at anchor, or in warping. Other bitts are used for belaying (belaying bitts), for sustaining the windlass (carrick bitts, winch bitts, or windlass bitts), to hold the pawls of the windlass (pawl bitts) etc.

Bitume (n.) Bitumen.

Bitumed (a.) Smeared with bitumen.

Bitumen (n.) Mineral pitch; a black, tarry substance, burning with a bright flame; Jew's pitch. It occurs as an abundant natural product in many places, as on the shores of the Dead and Caspian Seas. It is used in cements, in the construction of pavements, etc. See Asphalt.

Bitumen (n.) By extension, any one of the natural hydrocarbons, including the hard, solid, brittle varieties called asphalt, the semisolid maltha and mineral tars, the oily petroleums, and even the light, volatile naphthas.

Bituminated (imp. & p. p.) of Bituminate

Bituminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bituminate

Bituminate (v. t.) To treat or impregnate with bitumen; to cement with bitumen.

Bituminiferous (a.) Producing bitumen.

Bituminization (n.) The process of bituminizing.

Bituminized (imp. & p. p.) of Bituminize

Bituminizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bituminize

Bituminize (v. t.) To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen.

Bituminous (a.) Having the qualities of bitumen; compounded with bitumen; containing bitumen.

Biuret (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formed by heating urea. It is intermediate between urea and cyanuric acid.

Bivalency (n.) The quality of being bivalent.

Bivalent (p. pr.) Equivalent in combining or displacing power to two atoms of hydrogen; dyad.

Bivalve (n.) A mollusk having a shell consisting of two lateral plates or valves joined together by an elastic ligament at the hinge, which is usually strengthened by prominences called teeth. The shell is closed by the contraction of two transverse muscles attached to the inner surface, as in the clam, -- or by one, as in the oyster. See Mollusca.

Bivalve (n.) A pericarp in which the seed case opens or splits into two parts or valves.

Bivalve (a.) Having two shells or valves which open and shut, as the oyster and certain seed vessels.

Bivalved (a.) Having two valves, as the oyster and some seed pods; bivalve.

Bivalvous (a.) Bivalvular.

Bivalvular (a.) Having two valves.

Bivaulted (a.) Having two vaults or arches.

Bivector (n.) A term made up of the two parts / + /1 /-1, where / and /1 are vectors.

Biventral (a.) Having two bellies or protuberances; as, a biventral, or digastric, muscle, or the biventral lobe of the cerebellum.

Bivial (a.) Of or relating to the bivium.

Bivious (a.) Having, or leading, two ways.

Bivium (n.) One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, in distinction from the opposite side (trivium), which includes three ambulacra.

Bivouac (n.) The watch of a whole army by night, when in danger of surprise or attack.

Bivouac (n.) An encampment for the night without tents or covering.

Bivouacked (imp. & p. p.) of Bivouac

Bivouacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bivouac

Bivouac (v. i.) To watch at night or be on guard, as a whole army.

Bivouac (v. i.) To encamp for the night without tents or covering.

Biweekly (a.) Occurring or appearing once every two weeks; fortnightly.

Biweekly (n.) A publication issued every two weeks.

Biwreye (v. t.) To bewray; to reveal.

Bizantine () See Byzantine.

Bizarre (a.) Odd in manner or appearance; fantastic; whimsical; extravagant; grotesque.

Bizet (n.) The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, which projects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdle and the table. See Brilliant, n.

Blabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Blab

Blabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blab

Blab (v.) To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; to publish (secrets or trifles) without reserve or discretion.

Blab (v. i.) To talk thoughtlessly or without discretion; to tattle; to tell tales.

Blab (n.) One who blabs; a babbler; a telltale.

Blabber (n.) A tattler; a telltale.

Black (a.) Destitute of light, or incapable of reflecting it; of the color of soot or coal; of the darkest or a very dark color, the opposite of white; characterized by such a color; as, black cloth; black hair or eyes.

Black (a.) In a less literal sense: Enveloped or shrouded in darkness; very dark or gloomy; as, a black night; the heavens black with clouds.

Black (a.) Fig.: Dismal, gloomy, or forbidding, like darkness; destitute of moral light or goodness; atrociously wicked; cruel; mournful; calamitous; horrible.

Black (a.) Expressing menace, or discontent; threatening; sullen; foreboding; as, to regard one with black looks.

Black (adv.) Sullenly; threateningly; maliciously; so as to produce blackness.

Black (n.) That which is destitute of light or whiteness; the darkest color, or rather a destitution of all color; as, a cloth has a good black.

Black (n.) A black pigment or dye.

Black (n.) A negro; a person whose skin is of a black color, or shaded with black; esp. a member or descendant of certain African races.

Black (n.) A black garment or dress; as, she wears black

Black (n.) Mourning garments of a black color; funereal drapery.

Black (n.) The part of a thing which is distinguished from the rest by being black.

Black (n.) A stain; a spot; a smooch.

Blacked (imp. & p. p.) of Black

Blacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Black

Black (a.) To make black; to blacken; to soil; to sully.

Black (a.) To make black and shining, as boots or a stove, by applying blacking and then polishing with a brush.

Blackamoor (n.) A negro or negress.

Black art () The art practiced by conjurers and witches; necromancy; conjuration; magic.

Black-a-vised (a.) Dark-visaged; swart.

Blackball (n.) A composition for blacking shoes, boots, etc.; also, one for taking impressions of engraved work.

Blackball (n.) A ball of black color, esp. one used as a negative in voting; -- in this sense usually two words.

Blackballed (imp. & p. p.) of Blackball

Blackballing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blackball

Blackball (v. t.) To vote against, by putting a black ball into a ballot box; to reject or exclude, as by voting against with black balls; to ostracize.

Blackball (v. t.) To blacken (leather, shoes, etc.) with blacking.

Blackband (n.) An earthy carbonate of iron containing considerable carbonaceous matter; -- valuable as an iron ore.

Black bass () An edible, fresh-water fish of the United States, of the genus Micropterus. the small-mouthed kind is M. dolomiei; the large-mouthed is M. salmoides.

Black bass () The sea bass. See Blackfish, 3.

Blackberry (n.) The fruit of several species of bramble (Rubus); also, the plant itself. Rubus fruticosus is the blackberry of England; R. villosus and R. Canadensis are the high blackberry and low blackberry of the United States. There are also other kinds.

Blackbird (n.) In England, a species of thrush (Turdus merula), a singing bird with a fin note; the merle. In America the name is given to several birds, as the Quiscalus versicolor, or crow blackbird; the Agelaeus phoeniceus, or red-winged blackbird; the cowbird; the rusty grackle, etc. See Redwing.

Blackboard (n.) A broad board painted black, or any black surface on which writing, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be done with chalk or crayons. It is much used in schools.

Black book () One of several books of a political character, published at different times and for different purposes; -- so called either from the color of the binding, or from the character of the contents.

Black book () A book compiled in the twelfth century, containing a description of the court of exchequer of England, an official statement of the revenues of the crown, etc.

Black book () A book containing details of the enormities practiced in the English monasteries and religious houses, compiled by order of their visitors under Henry VIII., to hasten their dissolution.

Black book () A book of admiralty law, of the highest authority, compiled in the reign of Edw. III.

Black book () A book kept for the purpose of registering the names of persons liable to censure or punishment, as in the English universities, or the English armies.

Black book () Any book which treats of necromancy.

Black-browed (a.) Having black eyebrows. Hence: Gloomy; dismal; threatening; forbidding.

Blackburnian warbler () A beautiful warbler of the United States (Dendroica Blackburniae). The male is strongly marked with orange, yellow, and black on the head and neck, and has an orange-yellow breast.

Blackcap (n.) A small European song bird (Sylvia atricapilla), with a black crown; the mock nightingale.

Blackcap (n.) An American titmouse (Parus atricapillus); the chickadee.

Blackcap (n.) An apple roasted till black, to be served in a dish of boiled custard.

Blackcap (n.) The black raspberry.

Blackcoat (n.) A clergyman; -- familiarly so called, as a soldier is sometimes called a redcoat or a bluecoat.

Blackcock (n.) The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); -- so called by sportsmen. The female is called gray hen. See Heath grouse.

Black death () A pestilence which ravaged Europe and Asia in the fourteenth century.

Blackened (imp. & p. p.) of Blacken

Blackening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blacken

Blacken (v. t.) To make or render black.

Blacken (v. t.) To make dark; to darken; to cloud.

Blacken (v. t.) To defame; to sully, as reputation; to make infamous; as, vice blackens the character.

Blacken (v. i.) To grow black or dark.

Blackener (n.) One who blackens.

Black-eyed (a.) Having black eyes.

Black-faced (a.) Having a black, dark, or gloomy face or aspect.

Blackfeet (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians formerly inhabiting the country from the upper Missouri River to the Saskatchewan, but now much reduced in numbers.

Blackfin (n.) See Bluefin.

Blackfish (n.) A small kind of whale, of the genus Globicephalus, of several species. The most common is G. melas. Also sometimes applied to other whales of larger size.

Blackfish (n.) The tautog of New England (Tautoga).

Blackfish (n.) The black sea bass (Centropristis atrarius) of the Atlantic coast. It is excellent food fish; -- locally called also black Harry.

Blackfish (n.) A fish of southern Europe (Centrolophus pompilus) of the Mackerel family.

Blackfish (n.) The female salmon in the spawning season.

Blackfoot (a.) Of or pertaining to the Blackfeet; as, a Blackfoot Indian.

Blackfoot (n.) A Blackfoot Indian.

Black friar () A friar of the Dominican order; -- called also predicant and preaching friar; in France, Jacobin. Also, sometimes, a Benedictine.

Blackguard (n.) The scullions and lower menials of a court, or of a nobleman's household, who, in a removal from one residence to another, had charge of the kitchen utensils, and being smutted by them, were jocularly called the black guard; also, the servants and hangers-on of an army.

Blackguard (n.) The criminals and vagrants or vagabonds of a town or community, collectively.

Blackguard (n.) A person of stained or low character, esp. one who uses scurrilous language, or treats others with foul abuse; a scoundrel; a rough.

Blackguard (n.) A vagrant; a bootblack; a gamin.

Blackguarded (imp. & p. p.) of Blackguard

Blackguarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blackguard

Blackguard (v. t.) To revile or abuse in scurrilous language.

Blackguard (a.) Scurrilous; abusive; low; worthless; vicious; as, blackguard language.

Blackguardism (n.) The conduct or language of a blackguard; ruffianism.

Blackguardly (adv. & a.) In the manner of or resembling a blackguard; abusive; scurrilous; ruffianly.

Blackhead (n.) The scaup duck.

Blackheart (n.) A heart-shaped cherry with a very dark-colored skin.

Black-hearted (a.) Having a wicked, malignant disposition; morally bad.

Black hole () A dungeon or dark cell in a prison; a military lock-up or guardroom; -- now commonly with allusion to the cell (the Black Hole) in a fort at Calcutta, into which 146 English prisoners were thrust by the nabob Suraja Dowla on the night of June 20, 17656, and in which 123 of the prisoners died before morning from lack of air.

Blacking (n.) Any preparation for making things black; esp. one for giving a black luster to boots and shoes, or to stoves.

Blacking (n.) The act or process of making black.

Blackish (a.) Somewhat black.

Black-jack (n.) A name given by English miners to sphalerite, or zinc blende; -- called also false galena. See Blende.

Black-jack (n.) Caramel or burnt sugar, used to color wines, spirits, ground coffee, etc.

Black-jack (n.) A large leather vessel for beer, etc.

Black-jack (n.) The Quercus nigra, or barren oak.

Black-jack (n.) The ensign of a pirate.

Black lead () Plumbago; graphite. It leaves a blackish mark somewhat like lead. See Graphite.

Blacklead (v. t.) To coat or to polish with black lead.

Blackleg (n.) A notorious gambler.

Blackleg (n.) A disease among calves and sheep, characterized by a settling of gelatinous matter in the legs, and sometimes in the neck.

Black letter () The old English or Gothic letter, in which the Early English manuscripts were written, and the first English books were printed. It was conspicuous for its blackness. See Type.

Black-letter (a.) Written or printed in black letter; as, a black-letter manuscript or book.

Black-letter (a.) Given to the study of books in black letter; that is, of old books; out of date.

Black-letter (a.) Of or pertaining to the days in the calendar not marked with red letters as saints' days. Hence: Unlucky; inauspicious.

Blacklist (v. t.) To put in a black list as deserving of suspicion, censure, or punishment; esp. to put in a list of persons stigmatized as insolvent or untrustworthy, -- as tradesmen and employers do for mutual protection; as, to blacklist a workman who has been discharged. See Black list, under Black, a.

Blackly (adv.) In a black manner; darkly, in color; gloomily; threateningly; atrociously.

Blackmail (n.) A certain rate of money, corn, cattle, or other thing, anciently paid, in the north of England and south of Scotland, to certain men who were allied to robbers, or moss troopers, to be by them protected from pillage.

Blackmail (n.) Payment of money exacted by means of intimidation; also, extortion of money from a person by threats of public accusation, exposure, or censure.

Blackmail (n.) Black rent, or rent paid in corn, flesh, or the lowest coin, a opposed to white rent, which paid in silver.

Blackmailed (imp. & p. p.) of Blackmail

Blackmailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blackmail

Blackmail (v. t.) To extort money from by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation, distress of mind, etc.; as, to blackmail a merchant by threatening to expose an alleged fraud.

Blackmailer (n.) One who extorts, or endeavors to extort, money, by black mailing.

Blackmailing (n.) The act or practice of extorting money by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation.

Black Monday () Easter Monday, so called from the severity of that day in 1360, which was so unusual that many of Edward III.'s soldiers, then before Paris, died from the cold.

Black Monday () The first Monday after the holidays; -- so called by English schoolboys.

Black monk () A Benedictine monk.

Blackmoor (n.) See Blackamoor.

Black-mouthed (a.) Using foul or scurrilous language; slanderous.

Blackness (n.) The quality or state of being black; black color; atrociousness or enormity in wickedness.

Blackpoll (n.) A warbler of the United States (Dendroica striata).

Black pudding () A kind of sausage made of blood, suet, etc., thickened with meal.

Black Rod () the usher to the Chapter of the Garter, so called from the black rod which he carries. He is of the king's chamber, and also usher to the House of Lords.

Black Rod () An usher in the legislature of British colonies.

Blackroot (n.) See Colicroot.

Blacks (n. pl.) The name of a kind of in used in copperplate printing, prepared from the charred husks of the grape, and residue of the wine press.

Blacks (n. pl.) Soot flying in the air.

Blacks (n. pl.) Black garments, etc. See Black, n., 4.

Blacksalter (n.) One who makes crude potash, or black salts.

Black salts () Crude potash.

Blacksmith (n.) A smith who works in iron with a forge, and makes iron utensils, horseshoes, etc.

Blacksmith (n.) A fish of the Pacific coast (Chromis, / Heliastes, punctipinnis), of a blackish color.

Black snake (n.) Alt. of Blacksnake

Blacksnake (n.) A snake of a black color, of which two species are common in the United States, the Bascanium constrictor, or racer, sometimes six feet long, and the Scotophis Alleghaniensis, seven or eight feet long.

Blackstrap (n.) A mixture of spirituous liquor (usually rum) and molasses.

Blackstrap (n.) Bad port wine; any common wine of the Mediterranean; -- so called by sailors.

Blacktail (n.) A fish; the ruff or pope.

Blacktail (n.) The black-tailed deer (Cervus / Cariacus Columbianus) of California and Oregon; also, the mule deer of the Rocky Mountains. See Mule deer.

Blackthorn (n.) A spreading thorny shrub or small tree (Prunus spinosa), with blackish bark, and bearing little black plums, which are called sloes; the sloe.

Blackthorn (n.) A species of Crataegus or hawthorn (C. tomentosa). Both are used for hedges.

Black vomit () A copious vomiting of dark-colored matter; or the substance so discharged; -- one of the most fatal symptoms in yellow fever.

Black wash (n.) Alt. of Blackwash

Blackwash (n.) A lotion made by mixing calomel and lime water.

Blackwash (n.) A wash that blackens, as opposed to whitewash; hence, figuratively, calumny.

Blackwood (n.) A name given to several dark-colored timbers. The East Indian black wood is from the tree Dalbergia latifolia.

Blackwork (n.) Work wrought by blacksmiths; -- so called in distinction from that wrought by whitesmiths.

Bladder (n.) A bag or sac in animals, which serves as the receptacle of some fluid; as, the urinary bladder; the gall bladder; -- applied especially to the urinary bladder, either within the animal, or when taken out and inflated with air.

Bladder (n.) Any vesicle or blister, especially if filled with air, or a thin, watery fluid.

Bladder (n.) A distended, membranaceous pericarp.

Bladder (n.) Anything inflated, empty, or unsound.

Bladdered (imp. & p. p.) of Bladder

Bladdering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bladder

Bladder (v. t.) To swell out like a bladder with air; to inflate.

Bladder (v. t.) To put up in bladders; as, bladdered lard.

Bladderwort (n.) A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, which usually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves. These serve as traps for minute animals. See Ascidium.

Bladdery (a.) Having bladders; also, resembling a bladder.

Blade (n.) Properly, the leaf, or flat part of the leaf, of any plant, especially of gramineous plants. The term is sometimes applied to the spire of grasses.

Blade (n.) The cutting part of an instrument; as, the blade of a knife or a sword.

Blade (n.) The broad part of an oar; also, one of the projecting arms of a screw propeller.

Blade (n.) The scapula or shoulder blade.

Blade (n.) The principal rafters of a roof.

Blade (n.) The four large shell plates on the sides, and the five large ones of the middle, of the carapace of the sea turtle, which yield the best tortoise shell.

Blade (n.) A sharp-witted, dashing, wild, or reckless, fellow; -- a word of somewhat indefinite meaning.

Blade (v. t.) To furnish with a blade.

Blade (v. i.) To put forth or have a blade.

Bladebone (n.) The scapula. See Blade, 4.

Bladed (a.) Having a blade or blades; as, a two-bladed knife.

Bladed (a.) Divested of blades; as, bladed corn.

Bladed (a.) Composed of long and narrow plates, shaped like the blade of a knife.

Bladefish (n.) A long, thin, marine fish of Europe (Trichiurus lepturus); the ribbon fish.

Bladesmith (n.) A sword cutler.

Blady (a.) Consisting of blades.

Blae (a.) Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored.

Blaeberry (n.) The bilberry.

Blague (n.) Mendacious boasting; falsehood; humbug.

Blain (n.) An inflammatory swelling or sore; a bulla, pustule, or blister.

Blain (n.) A bladder growing on the root of the tongue of a horse, against the windpipe, and stopping the breath.

Blamable (a.) Deserving of censure; faulty; culpable; reprehensible; censurable; blameworthy.

Blamed (imp. & p. p.) of Blame

Blaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blame

Blame (v. t.) To censure; to express disapprobation of; to find fault with; to reproach.

Blame (v. t.) To bring reproach upon; to blemish.

Blame (v.) An expression of disapprobation fir something deemed to be wrong; imputation of fault; censure.

Blame (v.) That which is deserving of censure or disapprobation; culpability; fault; crime; sin.

Blame (v.) Hurt; injury.

Blameful (a.) Faulty; meriting blame.

Blameful (a.) Attributing blame or fault; implying or conveying censure; faultfinding; censorious.

Blameless (a.) Free from blame; without fault; innocent; guiltless; -- sometimes followed by of.

Blamelessly (adv.) In a blameless manner.

Blamelessness (n.) The quality or state of being blameless; innocence.

Blamer (n.) One who blames.

Blameworthy (a.) Deserving blame; culpable; reprehensible.

Blancard (n.) A kind of linen cloth made in Normandy, the thread of which is partly blanches before it is woven.

Blanched (imp. & p. p.) of Blanch

Blanching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blanch

Blanch (a.) To take the color out of, and make white; to bleach; as, to blanch linen; age has blanched his hair.

Blanch (a.) To bleach by excluding the light, as the stalks or leaves of plants, by earthing them up or tying them together.

Blanch (a.) To make white by removing the skin of, as by scalding; as, to blanch almonds.

Blanch (a.) To whiten, as the surface of meat, by plunging into boiling water and afterwards into cold, so as to harden the surface and retain the juices.

Blanch (a.) To give a white luster to (silver, before stamping, in the process of coining.).

Blanch (a.) To cover (sheet iron) with a coating of tin.

Blanch (a.) Fig.: To whiten; to give a favorable appearance to; to whitewash; to palliate.

Blanch (v. i.) To grow or become white; as, his cheek blanched with fear; the rose blanches in the sun.

Blanch (v. t.) To avoid, as from fear; to evade; to leave unnoticed.

Blanch (v. t.) To cause to turn aside or back; as, to blanch a deer.

Blanch (v. i.) To use evasion.

Blanch (n.) Ore, not in masses, but mixed with other minerals.

Blancher (n.) One who, or that which, blanches or whitens; esp., one who anneals and cleanses money; also, a chemical preparation for this purpose.

Blancher (n.) One who, or that which, frightens away or turns aside.

Blanch holding () A mode of tenure by the payment of a small duty in white rent (silver) or otherwise.

Blanchimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the bleaching power of chloride of lime and potash; a chlorometer.

Blancmange (n.) A preparation for desserts, etc., made from isinglass, sea moss, cornstarch, or other gelatinous or starchy substance, with mild, usually sweetened and flavored, and shaped in a mold.

Blancmanger (n.) A sort of fricassee with white sauce, variously made of capon, fish, etc.

Bland (a.) Mild; soft; gentle; smooth and soothing in manner; suave; as, a bland temper; bland persuasion; a bland sycophant.

Bland (a.) Having soft and soothing qualities; not drastic or irritating; not stimulating; as, a bland oil; a bland diet.

Blandation (n.) Flattery.

Blandiloquence (n.) Mild, flattering speech.

Blandiloquous (a.) Alt. of Blandiloquious

Blandiloquious (a.) Fair-spoken; flattering.

Blandise (v. i.) To blandish any one.

Blandished (imp. & p. p.) of Blandish

Blandishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blandish

Blandish (v. t.) To flatter with kind words or affectionate actions; to caress; to cajole.

Blandish (v. t.) To make agreeable and enticing.

Blandisher (n.) One who uses blandishments.

Blandishment (n.) The act of blandishing; a word or act expressive of affection or kindness, and tending to win the heart; soft words and artful caresses; cajolery; allurement.

Blandly (adv.) In a bland manner; mildly; suavely.

Blandness (n.) The state or quality of being bland.

Blank (a.) Of a white or pale color; without color.

Blank (a.) Free from writing, printing, or marks; having an empty space to be filled in with some special writing; -- said of checks, official documents, etc.; as, blank paper; a blank check; a blank ballot.

Blank (a.) Utterly confounded or discomfited.

Blank (a.) Empty; void; without result; fruitless; as, a blank space; a blank day.

Blank (a.) Lacking characteristics which give variety; as, a blank desert; a blank wall; destitute of interests, affections, hopes, etc.; as, to live a blank existence; destitute of sensations; as, blank unconsciousness.

Blank (a.) Lacking animation and intelligence, or their associated characteristics, as expression of face, look, etc.; expressionless; vacant.

Blank (a.) Absolute; downright; unmixed; as, blank terror.

Blank (n.) Any void space; a void space on paper, or in any written instrument; an interval void of consciousness, action, result, etc; a void.

Blank (n.) A lot by which nothing is gained; a ticket in a lottery on which no prize is indicated.

Blank (n.) A paper unwritten; a paper without marks or characters a blank ballot; -- especially, a paper on which are to be inserted designated items of information, for which spaces are left vacant; a bland form.

Blank (n.) A paper containing the substance of a legal instrument, as a deed, release, writ, or execution, with spaces left to be filled with names, date, descriptions, etc.

Blank (n.) The point aimed at in a target, marked with a white spot; hence, the object to which anything is directed.

Blank (n.) Aim; shot; range.

Blank (n.) A kind of base silver money, first coined in England by Henry V., and worth about 8 pence; also, a French coin of the seventeenth century, worth about 4 pence.

Blank (n.) A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by a further operation, as a coin, screw, nuts.

Blank (n.) A piece or division of a piece, without spots; as, the double blank; the six blank.

Blanked (imp. & p. p.) of Blank

Blanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blank

Blank (v. t.) To make void; to annul.

Blank (v. t.) To blanch; to make blank; to damp the spirits of; to dispirit or confuse.

Blanket (a.) A heavy, loosely woven fabric, usually of wool, and having a nap, used in bed clothing; also, a similar fabric used as a robe; or any fabric used as a cover for a horse.

Blanket (a.) A piece of rubber, felt, or woolen cloth, used in the tympan to make it soft and elastic.

Blanket (a.) A streak or layer of blubber in whales.

Blanketed (imp. & p. p.) of Blanket

Blanketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blanket

Blanket (v. t.) To cover with a blanket.

Blanket (v. t.) To toss in a blanket by way of punishment.

Blanket (v. t.) To take the wind out of the sails of (another vessel) by sailing to windward of her.

Blanketing (n.) Cloth for blankets.

Blanketing (n.) The act or punishment of tossing in a blanket.

Blankly (adv.) In a blank manner; without expression; vacuously; as, to stare blankly.

Blankly (adv.) Directly; flatly; point blank.

Blankness (n.) The state of being blank.

Blanquette (n.) A white fricassee.

Blanquillo (n.) A large fish of Florida and the W. Indies (Caulolatilus chrysops). It is red, marked with yellow.

Blared (imp. & p. p.) of Blare

Blaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blare

Blare (v. i.) To sound loudly and somewhat harshly.

Blare (v. t.) To cause to sound like the blare of a trumpet; to proclaim loudly.

Blare (n.) The harsh noise of a trumpet; a loud and somewhat harsh noise, like the blast of a trumpet; a roar or bellowing.

Blarney (n.) Smooth, wheedling talk; flattery.

Blarneyed (imp. & p. p.) of Blarney

Blarneying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blarney

Blarney (v. t.) To influence by blarney; to wheedle with smooth talk; to make or accomplish by blarney.

Blase (a.) Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency of enjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up.

Blasphemed (imp. & p. p.) of Blaspheme

Blaspheming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blaspheme

Blaspheme (v.) To speak of, or address, with impious irreverence; to revile impiously (anything sacred); as, to blaspheme the Holy Spirit.

Blaspheme (v.) Figuratively, of persons and things not religiously sacred, but held in high honor: To calumniate; to revile; to abuse.

Blaspheme (v. i.) To utter blasphemy.

Blasphemer (n.) One who blasphemes.

Blasphemous (a.) Speaking or writing blasphemy; uttering or exhibiting anything impiously irreverent; profane; as, a blasphemous person; containing blasphemy; as, a blasphemous book; a blasphemous caricature.

Blasphemously (adv.) In a blasphemous manner.

Blasphemy (n.) An indignity offered to God in words, writing, or signs; impiously irreverent words or signs addressed to, or used in reference to, God; speaking evil of God; also, the act of claiming the attributes or prerogatives of deity.

Blasphemy (n.) Figuratively, of things held in high honor: Calumny; abuse; vilification.

-blast () A suffix or terminal formative, used principally in biological terms, and signifying growth, formation; as, bioblast, epiblast, mesoblast, etc.

Blast (n.) A violent gust of wind.

Blast (n.) A forcible stream of air from an orifice, as from a bellows, the mouth, etc. Hence: The continuous blowing to which one charge of ore or metal is subjected in a furnace; as, to melt so many tons of iron at a blast.

Blast (n.) The exhaust steam from and engine, driving a column of air out of a boiler chimney, and thus creating an intense draught through the fire; also, any draught produced by the blast.

Blast (n.) The sound made by blowing a wind instrument; strictly, the sound produces at one breath.

Blast (n.) A sudden, pernicious effect, as if by a noxious wind, especially on animals and plants; a blight.

Blast (n.) The act of rending, or attempting to rend, heavy masses of rock, earth, etc., by the explosion of gunpowder, dynamite, etc.; also, the charge used for this purpose.

Blast (n.) A flatulent disease of sheep.

Blasted (imp. & p. p.) of Blast

Blasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blast

Blast (v. t.) To injure, as by a noxious wind; to cause to wither; to stop or check the growth of, and prevent from fruit-bearing, by some pernicious influence; to blight; to shrivel.

Blast (v. t.) Hence, to affect with some sudden violence, plague, calamity, or blighting influence, which destroys or causes to fail; to visit with a curse; to curse; to ruin; as, to blast pride, hopes, or character.

Blast (v. t.) To confound by a loud blast or din.

Blast (v. t.) To rend open by any explosive agent, as gunpowder, dynamite, etc.; to shatter; as, to blast rocks.

Blast (v. i.) To be blighted or withered; as, the bud blasted in the blossom.

Blast (v. i.) To blow; to blow on a trumpet.

Blasted (a.) Blighted; withered.

Blasted (a.) Confounded; accursed; detestable.

Blasted (a.) Rent open by an explosive.

Blastemata (pl. ) of Blastema

Blastema (n.) The structureless, protoplasmic tissue of the embryo; the primitive basis of an organ yet unformed, from which it grows.

Blastemal (a.) Relating to the blastema; rudimentary.

Blastematic (a.) Connected with, or proceeding from, the blastema; blastemal.

Blaster (n.) One who, or that which, blasts or destroys.

Blastide (n.) A small, clear space in the segments of the ovum, the precursor of the nucleus.

Blasting (n.) A blast; destruction by a blast, or by some pernicious cause.

Blasting (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, blasts; the business of one who blasts.

Blastment (n.) A sudden stroke or injury produced by some destructive cause.

Blastocarpous (a.) Germinating inside the pericarp, as the mangrove.

Blastocoele (n.) The cavity of the blastosphere, or segmentation cavity.

Blastocyst (n.) The germinal vesicle.

Blastoderm (n.) The germinal membrane in an ovum, from which the embryo is developed.

Blastodermatic (a.) Alt. of Blastodermic

Blastodermic (a.) Of or pertaining to the blastoderm.

Blastogenesis (n.) Multiplication or increase by gemmation or budding.

Blastoid (n.) One of the Blastoidea.

Blastoidea (n. pl.) One of the divisions of Crinoidea found fossil in paleozoic rocks; pentremites. They are so named on account of their budlike form.

Blastomere (n.) One of the segments first formed by the division of the ovum.

Blastophoral (a.) Alt. of Blastophoric

Blastophoric (a.) Relating to the blastophore.

Blastophore (n.) That portion of the spermatospore which is not converted into spermatoblasts, but carries them.

Blastopore (n.) The pore or opening leading into the cavity of invagination, or archenteron.

Blastosphere (n.) The hollow globe or sphere formed by the arrangement of the blastomeres on the periphery of an impregnated ovum.

Blastostyle (n.) In certain hydroids, an imperfect zooid, whose special function is to produce medusoid buds. See Hydroidea, and Athecata.

Blast pipe () The exhaust pipe of a steam engine, or any pipe delivering steam or air, when so constructed as to cause a blast.

Blastula (n.) That stage in the development of the ovum in which the outer cells of the morula become more defined and form the blastoderm.

Blastule (n.) Same as Blastula.

Blasty (a.) Affected by blasts; gusty.

Blasty (a.) Causing blast or injury.

Blat (v. i.) To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senseless noise; to talk inconsiderately.

Blat (v. t.) To utter inconsiderately.

Blatancy (n.) Blatant quality.

Blatant (a.) Bellowing, as a calf; bawling; brawling; clamoring; disagreeably clamorous; sounding loudly and harshly.

Blatantly (adv.) In a blatant manner.

Blatherskite (n.) A blustering, talkative fellow.

Blattered (imp. & p. p.) of Blatter

Blatter (v. i.) To prate; to babble; to rail; to make a senseless noise; to patter.

Blatteration (n.) Blattering.

Blatterer (n.) One who blatters; a babbler; a noisy, blustering boaster.

Blattering (n.) Senseless babble or boasting.

Blatteroon (n.) A senseless babbler or boaster.

Blaubok (n.) The blue buck. See Blue buck, under Blue.

Blay (a.) A fish. See Bleak, n.

Blaze (n.) A stream of gas or vapor emitting light and heat in the process of combustion; a bright flame.

Blaze (n.) Intense, direct light accompanied with heat; as, to seek shelter from the blaze of the sun.

Blaze (n.) A bursting out, or active display of any quality; an outburst; a brilliant display.

Blaze (n.) A white spot on the forehead of a horse.

Blaze (n.) A spot made on trees by chipping off a piece of the bark, usually as a surveyor's mark.

Blazed (imp. & p. p.) of Blaze

Blazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blaze

Blaze (v. i.) To shine with flame; to glow with flame; as, the fire blazes.

Blaze (v. i.) To send forth or reflect glowing or brilliant light; to show a blaze.

Blaze (v. i.) To be resplendent.

Blaze (v. t.) To mark (a tree) by chipping off a piece of the bark.

Blaze (v. t.) To designate by blazing; to mark out, as by blazed trees; as, to blaze a line or path.

Blaze (v. i.) To make public far and wide; to make known; to render conspicuous.

Blaze (v. i.) To blazon.

Blazer (n.) One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad.

Blazing (a.) Burning with a blaze; as, a blazing fire; blazing torches.

Blazon (n.) A shield.

Blazon (n.) An heraldic shield; a coat of arms, or a bearing on a coat of arms; armorial bearings.

Blazon (n.) The art or act of describing or depicting heraldic bearings in the proper language or manner.

Blazon (n.) Ostentatious display, either by words or other means; publication; show; description; record.

Blazoned (imp. & p. p.) of Blazon

Blazoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blazon

Blazon (v. t.) To depict in colors; to display; to exhibit conspicuously; to publish or make public far and wide.

Blazon (v. t.) To deck; to embellish; to adorn.

Blazon (v. t.) To describe in proper terms (the figures of heraldic devices); also, to delineate (armorial bearings); to emblazon.

Blazon (v. i.) To shine; to be conspicuous.

Blazoner (n.) One who gives publicity, proclaims, or blazons; esp., one who blazons coats of arms; a herald.

Blazonment (n.) The act of blazoning; blazoning; emblazonment.

Blazonry (n.) Same as Blazon, 3.

Blazonry (n.) A coat of arms; an armorial bearing or bearings.

Blazonry (n.) Artistic representation or display.

Blea (n.) The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; the alburnum or sapwood.

Bleaberry (n.) See Blaeberry.

Bleached (imp. & p. p.) of Bleach

Bleaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bleach

Bleach (a.) To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from; to blanch; to whiten.

Bleach (v. i.) To grow white or lose color; to whiten.

Bleached (a.) Whitened; make white.

Bleacher (n.) One who whitens, or whose occupation is to whiten, by bleaching.

Bleacheries (pl. ) of Bleachery

Bleachery (n.) A place or an establishment where bleaching is done.

Bleaching (n.) The act or process of whitening, by removing color or stains; esp. the process of whitening fabrics by chemical agents.

Bleak (a.) Without color; pale; pallid.

Bleak (a.) Desolate and exposed; swept by cold winds.

Bleak (a.) Cold and cutting; cheerless; as, a bleak blast.

Bleak (a.) A small European river fish (Leuciscus alburnus), of the family Cyprinidae; the blay.

Bleaky (a.) Bleak.

Blear (v.) Dim or sore with water or rheum; -- said of the eyes.

Blear (v.) Causing or caused by dimness of sight; dim.

Bleared (imp. & p. p.) of Blear

Blearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blear

Blear (v. t.) To make somewhat sore or watery, as the eyes; to dim, or blur, as the sight. Figuratively: To obscure (mental or moral perception); to blind; to hoodwink.

Bleared (a.) Dimmed, as by a watery humor; affected with rheum.

Bleareye (n.) A disease of the eyelids, consisting in chronic inflammation of the margins, with a gummy secretion of sebaceous matter.

Blear-eyed (a.) Having sore eyes; having the eyes dim with rheum; dim-sighted.

Blear-eyed (a.) Lacking in perception or penetration; short-sighted; as, a blear-eyed bigot.

Bleareyedness (n.) The state of being blear-eyed.

Bleary (a.) Somewhat blear.

Bleated (imp. & p. p.) of Bleat

Bleating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bleat

Bleat (v. i.) To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry like a sheep or calf.

Bleat (n.) A plaintive cry of, or like that of, a sheep.

Bleater (n.) One who bleats; a sheep.

Bleating (a.) Crying as a sheep does.

Bleating (n.) The cry of, or as of, a sheep.

Bleb (n.) A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; a blister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc.

Blebby (a.) Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass.

Bleck (v. t.) Alt. of Blek

Blek (v. t.) To blacken; also, to defile.

Bled () imp. & p. p. of Bleed.

Blee (n.) Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form.

Bled (imp. & p. p.) of Bleed

Bleeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bleed

Bleed (v. i.) To emit blood; to lose blood; to run with blood, by whatever means; as, the arm bleeds; the wound bled freely; to bleed at the nose.

Bleed (v. i.) To withdraw blood from the body; to let blood; as, Dr. A. bleeds in fevers.

Bleed (v. i.) To lose or shed one's blood, as in case of a violent death or severe wounds; to die by violence.

Bleed (v. i.) To issue forth, or drop, as blood from an incision.

Bleed (v. i.) To lose sap, gum, or juice; as, a tree or a vine bleeds when tapped or wounded.

Bleed (v. i.) To pay or lose money; to have money drawn or extorted; as, to bleed freely for a cause.

Bleed (v. t.) To let blood from; to take or draw blood from, as by opening a vein.

Bleed (v. t.) To lose, as blood; to emit or let drop, as sap.

Bleed (v. t.) To draw money from (one); to induce to pay; as, they bled him freely for this fund.

Bleeder (n.) One who, or that which, draws blood.

Bleeder (n.) One in whom slight wounds give rise to profuse or uncontrollable bleeding.

Bleeding (a.) Emitting, or appearing to emit, blood or sap, etc.; also, expressing anguish or compassion.

Bleeding (n.) A running or issuing of blood, as from the nose or a wound; a hemorrhage; the operation of letting blood, as in surgery; a drawing or running of sap from a tree or plant.

Blemished (imp. & p. p.) of Blemish

Blemishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blemish

Blemish (v. t.) To mark with deformity; to injure or impair, as anything which is well formed, or excellent; to mar, or make defective, either the body or mind.

Blemish (v. t.) To tarnish, as reputation or character; to defame.

Blemishes (pl. ) of Blemish

Blemish (n.) Any mark of deformity or injury, whether physical or moral; anything that diminishes beauty, or renders imperfect that which is otherwise well formed; that which impairs reputation.

Blemishless (a.) Without blemish; spotless.

Blemishment (n.) The state of being blemished; blemish; disgrace; damage; impairment.

Blenched (imp. & p. p.) of Blench

Blenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blench

Blench (v. i.) To shrink; to start back; to draw back, from lack of courage or resolution; to flinch; to quail.

Blench (v. i.) To fly off; to turn aside.

Blench (v. t.) To baffle; to disconcert; to turn away; -- also, to obstruct; to hinder.

Blench (v. t.) To draw back from; to deny from fear.

Blench (n.) A looking aside or askance.

Blench (v. i. & t.) To grow or make pale.

Blencher (n.) One who, or that which, scares another; specifically, a person stationed to prevent the escape of the deer, at a hunt. See Blancher.

Blencher (n.) One who blenches, flinches, or shrinks back.

Blench holding () See Blanch holding.

Blended (imp. & p. p.) of Blend

Blent () of Blend

Blending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blend

Blend (v. t.) To mix or mingle together; esp. to mingle, combine, or associate so that the separate things mixed, or the line of demarcation, can not be distinguished. Hence: To confuse; to confound.

Blend (v. t.) To pollute by mixture or association; to spoil or corrupt; to blot; to stain.

Blend (v. i.) To mingle; to mix; to unite intimately; to pass or shade insensibly into each other, as colors.

Blend (n.) A thorough mixture of one thing with another, as color, tint, etc., into another, so that it cannot be known where one ends or the other begins.

Blend (a.) To make blind, literally or figuratively; to dazzle; to deceive.

Blende (n.) A mineral, called also sphalerite, and by miners mock lead, false galena, and black-jack. It is a zinc sulphide, but often contains some iron. Its color is usually yellow, brown, or black, and its luster resinous.

Blende (n.) A general term for some minerals, chiefly metallic sulphides which have a somewhat brilliant but nonmetallic luster.

Blender (n.) One who, or that which, blends; an instrument, as a brush, used in blending.

Blending (n.) The act of mingling.

Blending (n.) The method of laying on different tints so that they may mingle together while wet, and shade into each other insensibly.

Blendous (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, blende.

Blendwater (n.) A distemper incident to cattle, in which their livers are affected.

Blenheim spaniel () A small variety of spaniel, kept as a pet.

Blenk (v. i.) To blink; to shine; to look.

Blennioid (a.) Alt. of Blenniid

Blenniid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the blennies.

Blennogenous (a.) Generating mucus.

Blennorrhea (n.) An inordinate secretion and discharge of mucus.

Blennorrhea (n.) Gonorrhea.

Blennies (pl. ) of Blenny

Blenny (n.) A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidae; -- so called from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous.

Blent (imp. & p. p.) Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained.

Blent (imp. & p. p.) Blinded. Also (Chaucer), 3d sing. pres. Blindeth.

Blesbok (n.) A South African antelope (Alcelaphus albifrons), having a large white spot on the forehead.

Blessed (imp. & p. p.) of Bless

Blest () of Bless

Blessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bless

Bless (v. t.) To make or pronounce holy; to consecrate

Bless (v. t.) To make happy, blithesome, or joyous; to confer prosperity or happiness upon; to grant divine favor to.

Bless (v. t.) To express a wish or prayer for the happiness of; to invoke a blessing upon; -- applied to persons.

Bless (v. t.) To invoke or confer beneficial attributes or qualities upon; to invoke or confer a blessing on, -- as on food.

Bless (v. t.) To make the sign of the cross upon; to cross (one's self).

Bless (v. t.) To guard; to keep; to protect.

Bless (v. t.) To praise, or glorify; to extol for excellences.

Bless (v. t.) To esteem or account happy; to felicitate.

Bless (v. t.) To wave; to brandish.

Blessed (a.) Hallowed; consecrated; worthy of blessing or adoration; heavenly; holy.

Blessed (a.) Enjoying happiness or bliss; favored with blessings; happy; highly favored.

Blessed (a.) Imparting happiness or bliss; fraught with happiness; blissful; joyful.

Blessed (a.) Enjoying, or pertaining to, spiritual happiness, or heavenly felicity; as, the blessed in heaven.

Blessed (a.) Beatified.

Blessed (a.) Used euphemistically, ironically, or intensively.

Blessedly (adv.) Happily; fortunately; joyfully.

Blessedness (n.) The state of being blessed; happiness; felicity; bliss; heavenly joys; the favor of God.

Blessed thistle () See under Thistle.

Blesser (n.) One who blesses; one who bestows or invokes a blessing.

Blessing (v. t.) The act of one who blesses.

Blessing (v. t.) A declaration of divine favor, or an invocation imploring divine favor on some or something; a benediction; a wish of happiness pronounces.

Blessing (v. t.) A means of happiness; that which promotes prosperity and welfare; a beneficent gift.

Blessing (v. t.) A gift.

Blessing (v. t.) Grateful praise or worship.

Blest (a.) Blessed.

Blet (n.) A form of decay in fruit which is overripe.

Bletonism (n.) The supposed faculty of perceiving subterraneous springs and currents by sensation; -- so called from one Bleton, of France.

Bletting (n.) A form of decay seen in fleshy, overripe fruit.

Blew () imp. of Blow.

Bleyme (n.) An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole and the bone.

Bleynte () imp. of Blench.

Blickey (n.) A tin dinner pail.

Blighted (imp. & p. p.) of Blight

Blighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blight

Blight (v. t.) To affect with blight; to blast; to prevent the growth and fertility of.

Blight (v. t.) Hence: To destroy the happiness of; to ruin; to mar essentially; to frustrate; as, to blight one's prospects.

Blight (v. i.) To be affected by blight; to blast; as, this vine never blights.

Blight (n.) Mildew; decay; anything nipping or blasting; -- applied as a general name to various injuries or diseases of plants, causing the whole or a part to wither, whether occasioned by insects, fungi, or atmospheric influences.

Blight (n.) The act of blighting, or the state of being blighted; a withering or mildewing, or a stoppage of growth in the whole or a part of a plant, etc.

Blight (n.) That which frustrates one's plans or withers one's hopes; that which impairs or destroys.

Blight (n.) A downy species of aphis, or plant louse, destructive to fruit trees, infesting both the roots and branches; -- also applied to several other injurious insects.

Blight (n.) A rashlike eruption on the human skin.

Blighting (a.) Causing blight.

Blightingly (adv.) So as to cause blight.

Blimbi (n.) Alt. of Blimbing

Blimbing (n.) See Bilimbi, etc.

Blin (v. t. & i.) To stop; to cease; to desist.

Blin (n.) Cessation; end.

Blind (a.) Destitute of the sense of seeing, either by natural defect or by deprivation; without sight.

Blind (a.) Not having the faculty of discernment; destitute of intellectual light; unable or unwilling to understand or judge; as, authors are blind to their own defects.

Blind (a.) Undiscerning; undiscriminating; inconsiderate.

Blind (a.) Having such a state or condition as a thing would have to a person who is blind; not well marked or easily discernible; hidden; unseen; concealed; as, a blind path; a blind ditch.

Blind (a.) Involved; intricate; not easily followed or traced.

Blind (a.) Having no openings for light or passage; as, a blind wall; open only at one end; as, a blind alley; a blind gut.

Blind (a.) Unintelligible, or not easily intelligible; as, a blind passage in a book; illegible; as, blind writing.

Blind (a.) Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit; as, blind buds; blind flowers.

Blinded (imp. & p. p.) of Blind

Blinding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blind

Blind (v. t.) To make blind; to deprive of sight or discernment.

Blind (v. t.) To deprive partially of vision; to make vision difficult for and painful to; to dazzle.

Blind (v. t.) To darken; to obscure to the eye or understanding; to conceal; to deceive.

Blind (v. t.) To cover with a thin coating of sand and fine gravel; as a road newly paved, in order that the joints between the stones may be filled.

Blind (n.) Something to hinder sight or keep out light; a screen; a cover; esp. a hinged screen or shutter for a window; a blinder for a horse.

Blind (n.) Something to mislead the eye or the understanding, or to conceal some covert deed or design; a subterfuge.

Blind (n.) A blindage. See Blindage.

Blind (n.) A halting place.

Blind (n.) Alt. of Blinde

Blinde (n.) See Blende.

Blindage (n.) A cover or protection for an advanced trench or approach, formed of fascines and earth supported by a framework.

Blinder (n.) One who, or that which, blinds.

Blinder (n.) One of the leather screens on a bridle, to hinder a horse from seeing objects at the side; a blinker.

Blindfish (n.) A small fish (Amblyopsis spelaeus) destitute of eyes, found in the waters of the Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky. Related fishes from other caves take the same name.

Blindfolded (imp. & p. p.) of Blindfold

Blindfolding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blindfold

Blindfold (v. t.) To cover the eyes of, as with a bandage; to hinder from seeing.

Blindfold (a.) Having the eyes covered; blinded; having the mental eye darkened. Hence: Heedless; reckless; as, blindfold zeal; blindfold fury.

Blinding (a.) Making blind or as if blind; depriving of sight or of understanding; obscuring; as, blinding tears; blinding snow.

Blinding (n.) A thin coating of sand and fine gravel over a newly paved road. See Blind, v. t., 4.

Blindly (adv.) Without sight, discernment, or understanding; without thought, investigation, knowledge, or purpose of one's own.

Blindman's buff () A play in which one person is blindfolded, and tries to catch some one of the company and tell who it is.

Blindman's holiday () The time between daylight and candle light.

Blindness (n.) State or condition of being blind, literally or figuratively.

Blindstory (n.) The triforium as opposed to the clearstory.

Blindworm (n.) A small, burrowing, snakelike, limbless lizard (Anguis fragilis), with minute eyes, popularly believed to be blind; the slowworm; -- formerly a name for the adder.

Blinked (imp. & p. p.) of Blink

Blinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blink

Blink (v. i.) To wink; to twinkle with, or as with, the eye.

Blink (v. i.) To see with the eyes half shut, or indistinctly and with frequent winking, as a person with weak eyes.

Blink (v. i.) To shine, esp. with intermittent light; to twinkle; to flicker; to glimmer, as a lamp.

Blink (v. i.) To turn slightly sour, as beer, mild, etc.

Blink (v. t.) To shut out of sight; to avoid, or purposely evade; to shirk; as, to blink the question.

Blink (v. t.) To trick; to deceive.

Blink (v. i.) A glimpse or glance.

Blink (v. i.) Gleam; glimmer; sparkle.

Blink (v. i.) The dazzling whiteness about the horizon caused by the reflection of light from fields of ice at sea; ice blink.

Blink (pl.) Boughs cast where deer are to pass, to turn or check them.

Blinkard (n.) One who blinks with, or as with, weak eyes.

Blinkard (n.) That which twinkles or glances, as a dim star, which appears and disappears.

Blink beer () Beer kept unbroached until it is sharp.

Blinker (n.) One who, or that which, blinks.

Blinker (n.) A blinder for horses; a flap of leather on a horse's bridle to prevent him from seeing objects as his side hence, whatever obstructs sight or discernment.

Blinker (pl.) A kind of goggles, used to protect the eyes form glare, etc.

Blink-eyed (a.) Habitually winking.

Blirt (n.) A gust of wind and rain.

Blisses (pl. ) of Bliss

Bliss (n.) Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy.

Blissful (a.) Full of, characterized by, or causing, joy and felicity; happy in the highest degree.

Blissless (a.) Destitute of bliss.

Blissom (v. i.) To be lustful; to be lascivious.

Blissom (a.) Lascivious; also, in heat; -- said of ewes.

Blister (n.) A vesicle of the skin, containing watery matter or serum, whether occasioned by a burn or other injury, or by a vesicatory; a collection of serous fluid causing a bladderlike elevation of the cuticle.

Blister (n.) Any elevation made by the separation of the film or skin, as on plants; or by the swelling of the substance at the surface, as on steel.

Blister (n.) A vesicatory; a plaster of Spanish flies, or other matter, applied to raise a blister.

Blistered (imp. & p. p.) of Blister

Blistering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blister

Blister (v. i.) To be affected with a blister or blisters; to have a blister form on.

Blister (v. t.) To raise a blister or blisters upon.

Blister (v. t.) To give pain to, or to injure, as if by a blister.

Blistery (a.) Full of blisters.

Blite (n.) A genus of herbs (Blitum) with a fleshy calyx. Blitum capitatum is the strawberry blite.

Blithe (a.) Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithe spirit.

Blitheful (a.) Gay; full of gayety; joyous.

Blithely (adv.) In a blithe manner.

Blitheness (n.) The state of being blithe.

Blithesome (a.) Cheery; gay; merry.

Blive (adv.) Quickly; forthwith.

Blizzard (n.) A gale of piercingly cold wind, usually accompanied with fine and blinding snow; a furious blast.

Bloated (imp. & p. p.) of Bloat

Bloating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bloat

Bloat (v. t.) To make turgid, as with water or air; to cause a swelling of the surface of, from effusion of serum in the cellular tissue, producing a morbid enlargement, often accompanied with softness.

Bloat (v. t.) To inflate; to puff up; to make vain.

Bloat (v. i.) To grow turgid as by effusion of liquid in the cellular tissue; to puff out; to swell.

Bloat (a.) Bloated.

Bloat (n.) A term of contempt for a worthless, dissipated fellow.

Bloat (v. t.) To dry (herrings) in smoke. See Blote.

Bloated (p. a.) Distended beyond the natural or usual size, as by the presence of water, serum, etc.; turgid; swollen; as, a bloated face. Also, puffed up with pride; pompous.

Bloatedness (n.) The state of being bloated.

Bloater (n.) The common herring, esp. when of large size, smoked, and half dried; -- called also bloat herring.

Blob (n.) Something blunt and round; a small drop or lump of something viscid or thick; a drop; a bubble; a blister.

Blob (n.) A small fresh-water fish (Uranidea Richardsoni); the miller's thumb.

Blobber (n.) A bubble; blubber.

Blobber-lipped (a.) Having thick lips.

Blocage (n.) The roughest and cheapest sort of rubblework, in masonry.

Block (v. t.) A piece of wood more or less bulky; a solid mass of wood, stone, etc., usually with one or more plane, or approximately plane, faces; as, a block on which a butcher chops his meat; a block by which to mount a horse; children's playing blocks, etc.

Block (v. t.) The solid piece of wood on which condemned persons lay their necks when they are beheaded.

Block (v. t.) The wooden mold on which hats, bonnets, etc., are shaped.

Block (v. t.) The pattern or shape of a hat.

Block (v. t.) A large or long building divided into separate houses or shops, or a number of houses or shops built in contact with each other so as to form one building; a row of houses or shops.

Block (v. t.) A square, or portion of a city inclosed by streets, whether occupied by buildings or not.

Block (v. t.) A grooved pulley or sheave incased in a frame or shell which is provided with a hook, eye, or strap, by which it may be attached to an object. It is used to change the direction of motion, as in raising a heavy object that can not be conveniently reached, and also, when two or more such sheaves are compounded, to change the rate of motion, or to exert increased force; -- used especially in the rigging of ships, and in tackles.

Block (v. t.) The perch on which a bird of prey is kept.

Block (v. t.) Any obstruction, or cause of obstruction; a stop; a hindrance; an obstacle; as, a block in the way.

Block (v. t.) A piece of box or other wood for engravers' work.

Block (v. t.) A piece of hard wood (as mahogany or cherry) on which a stereotype or electrotype plate is mounted to make it type high.

Block (v. t.) A blockhead; a stupid fellow; a dolt.

Block (v. t.) A section of a railroad where the block system is used. See Block system, below.

Blocked (imp. & p. p.) of Block

Blocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Block

Block (n.) To obstruct so as to prevent passage or progress; to prevent passage from, through, or into, by obstructing the way; -- used both of persons and things; -- often followed by up; as, to block up a road or harbor.

Block (n.) To secure or support by means of blocks; to secure, as two boards at their angles of intersection, by pieces of wood glued to each.

Block (n.) To shape on, or stamp with, a block; as, to block a hat.

Blockade (v. t.) The shutting up of a place by troops or ships, with the purpose of preventing ingress or egress, or the reception of supplies; as, the blockade of the ports of an enemy.

Blockade (v. t.) An obstruction to passage.

Blockaded (imp. & p. p.) of Blockade

Blockading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blockade

Blockade (v. t. ) To shut up, as a town or fortress, by investing it with troops or vessels or war for the purpose of preventing ingress or egress, or the introduction of supplies. See note under Blockade, n.

Blockade (n.) Hence, to shut in so as to prevent egress.

Blockade (n.) To obstruct entrance to or egress from.

Blockader (n.) One who blockades.

Blockader (n.) A vessel employed in blockading.

Blockage (n.) The act of blocking up; the state of being blocked up.

Block book () A book printed from engraved wooden blocks instead of movable types.

Blockhead (n.) A stupid fellow; a dolt; a person deficient in understanding.

Blockheaded (a.) Stupid; dull.

Blockheadism (n.) That which characterizes a blockhead; stupidity.

Blockhouse (n.) An edifice or structure of heavy timbers or logs for military defense, having its sides loopholed for musketry, and often an upper story projecting over the lower, or so placed upon it as to have its sides make an angle wit the sides of the lower story, thus enabling the defenders to fire downward, and in all directions; -- formerly much used in America and Germany.

Blockhouse (n.) A house of squared logs.

Blocking (n.) The act of obstructing, supporting, shaping, or stamping with a block or blocks.

Blocking (n.) Blocks used to support (a building, etc.) temporarily.

Blocking course () The finishing course of a wall showing above a cornice.

Blockish (a.) Like a block; deficient in understanding; stupid; dull.

Blocklike (a.) Like a block; stupid.

Block tin () See under Tin.

Bloedite (n.) A hydrous sulphate of magnesium and sodium.

Blomary (n.) See Bloomery.

Bloncket (a.) Alt. of Blonket

Blonket (a.) Gray; bluish gray.

Blond (v. t.) Alt. of Blonde

Blonde (v. t.) Of a fair color; light-colored; as, blond hair; a blond complexion.

Blonde (n.) A person of very fair complexion, with light hair and light blue eyes.

Blonde (n.) A kind of silk lace originally of the color of raw silk, now sometimes dyed; -- called also blond lace.

Blond metal () A variety of clay ironstone, in Staffordshire, England, used for making tools.

Blondness (n.) The state of being blond.

Blood (n.) The fluid which circulates in the principal vascular system of animals, carrying nourishment to all parts of the body, and bringing away waste products to be excreted. See under Arterial.

Blood (n.) Relationship by descent from a common ancestor; consanguinity; kinship.

Blood (n.) Descent; lineage; especially, honorable birth; the highest royal lineage.

Blood (n.) Descent from parents of recognized breed; excellence or purity of breed.

Blood (n.) The fleshy nature of man.

Blood (n.) The shedding of blood; the taking of life, murder; manslaughter; destruction.

Blood (n.) A bloodthirsty or murderous disposition.

Blood (n.) Temper of mind; disposition; state of the passions; -- as if the blood were the seat of emotions.

Blood (n.) A man of fire or spirit; a fiery spark; a gay, showy man; a rake.

Blood (n.) The juice of anything, especially if red.

Blooded (imp. & p. p.) of Blood

Blooding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blood

Blood (v. t.) To bleed.

Blood (v. t.) To stain, smear or wet, with blood.

Blood (v. t.) To give (hounds or soldiers) a first taste or sight of blood, as in hunting or war.

Blood (v. t.) To heat the blood of; to exasperate.

Bloodbird (n.) An Australian honeysucker (Myzomela sanguineolata); -- so called from the bright red color of the male bird.

Blood-boltered (a.) Having the hair matted with clotted blood.

Blooded (a.) Having pure blood, or a large admixture or pure blood; of approved breed; of the best stock.

Bloodflower (n.) A genus of bulbous plants, natives of Southern Africa, named Haemanthus, of the Amaryllis family. The juice of H. toxicarius is used by the Hottentots to poison their arrows.

Bloodguilty (a.) Guilty of murder or bloodshed.

Bloodhound (n.) A breed of large and powerful dogs, with long, smooth, and pendulous ears, and remarkable for acuteness of smell. It is employed to recover game or prey which has escaped wounded from a hunter, and for tracking criminals. Formerly it was used for pursuing runaway slaves. Other varieties of dog are often used for the same purpose and go by the same name. The Cuban bloodhound is said to be a variety of the mastiff.

Bloodily (adv.) In a bloody manner; cruelly; with a disposition to shed blood.

Bloodiness (n.) The state of being bloody.

Bloodiness (n.) Disposition to shed blood; bloodthirstiness.

Bloodless (a.) Destitute of blood, or apparently so; as, bloodless cheeks; lifeless; dead.

Bloodless (a.) Not attended with shedding of blood, or slaughter; as, a bloodless victory.

Bloodless (a.) Without spirit or activity.

Bloodlet (v. t. ) bleed; to let blood.

Bloodletter (n.) One who, or that which, lets blood; a phlebotomist.

Bloodletting (n.) The act or process of letting blood or bleeding, as by opening a vein or artery, or by cupping or leeches; -- esp. applied to venesection.

Blood money () Money paid to the next of kin of a person who has been killed by another.

Blood money () Money obtained as the price, or at the cost, of another's life; -- said of a reward for supporting a capital charge, of money obtained for betraying a fugitive or for committing murder, or of money obtained from the sale of that which will destroy the purchaser.

Bloodroot (n.) A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap, and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called also puccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint. It has acrid emetic properties, and the rootstock is used as a stimulant expectorant. See Sanguinaria.

Bloodshed (n.) The shedding or spilling of blood; slaughter; the act of shedding human blood, or taking life, as in war, riot, or murder.

Bloodshedder (n.) One who sheds blood; a manslayer; a murderer.

Bloodshedding (n.) Bloodshed.

Bloodshot (a.) Red and inflamed; suffused with blood, or having the vessels turgid with blood, as when the conjunctiva is inflamed or irritated.

Blood-shotten (a.) Bloodshot.

Bloodstick (n.) A piece of hard wood loaded at one end with lead, and used to strike the fleam into the vein.

Bloodstone (n.) A green siliceous stone sprinkled with red jasper, as if with blood; hence the name; -- called also heliotrope.

Bloodstone (n.) Hematite, an ore of iron yielding a blood red powder or streak.

Bloodstroke (n.) Loss of sensation and motion from hemorrhage or congestion in the brain.

Bloodsucker (n.) Any animal that sucks blood; esp., the leech (Hirudo medicinalis), and related species.

Bloodsucker (n.) One who sheds blood; a cruel, bloodthirsty man; one guilty of bloodshed; a murderer.

Bloodsucker (n.) A hard and exacting master, landlord, or money lender; an extortioner.

Bloodthirsty (a.) Eager to shed blood; cruel; sanguinary; murderous.

Bloodulf (n.) The European bullfinch.

Blood vessel () Any vessel or canal in which blood circulates in an animal, as an artery or vein.

Bloodwite (n.) Alt. of Bloodwit

Bloodwit (n.) A fine or amercement paid as a composition for the shedding of blood; also, a riot wherein blood was spilled.

Bloodwood (n.) A tree having the wood or the sap of the color of blood.

Bloodwort (n.) A plant, Rumex sanguineus, or bloody-veined dock. The name is applied also to bloodroot (Sanguinaria Canadensis), and to an extensive order of plants (Haemodoraceae), the roots of many species of which contain a red coloring matter useful in dyeing.

Bloody (a.) Containing or resembling blood; of the nature of blood; as, bloody excretions; bloody sweat.

Bloody (a.) Smeared or stained with blood; as, bloody hands; a bloody handkerchief.

Bloody (a.) Given, or tending, to the shedding of blood; having a cruel, savage disposition; murderous; cruel.

Bloody (a.) Attended with, or involving, bloodshed; sanguinary; esp., marked by great slaughter or cruelty; as, a bloody battle.

Bloody (a.) Infamous; contemptible; -- variously used for mere emphasis or as a low epithet.

Bloodied (imp. & p. p.) of Bloody

Bloodying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bloody

Bloody (v. t.) To stain with blood.

Bloodybones (n.) A terrible bugbear.

Bloody flux () The dysentery, a disease in which the flux or discharge from the bowels has a mixture of blood.

Bloody hand () A hand stained with the blood of a deer, which, in the old forest laws of England, was sufficient evidence of a man's trespass in the forest against venison.

Bloody hand () A red hand, as in the arms of Ulster, which is now the distinguishing mark of a baronet of the United Kingdom.

Bloody-minded (a.) Having a cruel, ferocious disposition; bloodthirsty.

Bloody sweat () A sweat accompanied by a discharge of blood; a disease, called sweating sickness, formerly prevalent in England and other countries.

Bloom (n.) A blossom; the flower of a plant; an expanded bud; flowers, collectively.

Bloom (n.) The opening of flowers in general; the state of blossoming or of having the flowers open; as, the cherry trees are in bloom.

Bloom (n.) A state or time of beauty, freshness, and vigor; an opening to higher perfection, analogous to that of buds into blossoms; as, the bloom of youth.

Bloom (n.) The delicate, powdery coating upon certain growing or newly-gathered fruits or leaves, as on grapes, plums, etc. Hence: Anything giving an appearance of attractive freshness; a flush; a glow.

Bloom (n.) The clouded appearance which varnish sometimes takes upon the surface of a picture.

Bloom (n.) A yellowish deposit or powdery coating which appears on well-tanned leather.

Bloom (n.) A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as, the rose-red cobalt bloom.

Bloomed (imp. & p. p.) of Bloom

Blooming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bloom

Bloom (v. i.) To produce or yield blossoms; to blossom; to flower or be in flower.

Bloom (v. i.) To be in a state of healthful, growing youth and vigor; to show beauty and freshness, as of flowers; to give promise, as by or with flowers.

Bloom (v. t.) To cause to blossom; to make flourish.

Bloom (v. t.) To bestow a bloom upon; to make blooming or radiant.

Bloom (n.) A mass of wrought iron from the Catalan forge or from the puddling furnace, deprived of its dross, and shaped usually in the form of an oblong block by shingling.

Bloom (n.) A large bar of steel formed directly from an ingot by hammering or rolling, being a preliminary shape for further working.

Bloomary (n.) See Bloomery.

Bloomer (n.) A costume for women, consisting of a short dress, with loose trousers gathered round ankles, and (commonly) a broad-brimmed hat.

Bloomer (n.) A woman who wears a Bloomer costume.

Bloomery (n.) A furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of blooms is made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron.

Blooming (n.) The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron.

Blooming (a.) Opening in blossoms; flowering.

Blooming (a.) Thriving in health, beauty, and vigor; indicating the freshness and beauties of youth or health.

Bloomingly (adv.) In a blooming manner.

Bloomingness (n.) A blooming condition.

Bloomless (a.) Without bloom or flowers.

Bloomy (a.) Full of bloom; flowery; flourishing with the vigor of youth; as, a bloomy spray.

Bloomy (a.) Covered with bloom, as fruit.

Blooth (n.) Bloom; a blossoming.

Blore (n.) The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast.

Blosmy (a.) Blossomy.

Blossom (n.) The flower of a plant, or the essential organs of reproduction, with their appendages; florescence; bloom; the flowers of a plant, collectively; as, the blossoms and fruit of a tree; an apple tree in blossom.

Blossom (n.) A blooming period or stage of development; something lovely that gives rich promise.

Blossom (n.) The color of a horse that has white hairs intermixed with sorrel and bay hairs; -- otherwise called peach color.

Blossomed (imp. & p. p.) of Blossom

Blossoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blossom

Blossom (n.) To put forth blossoms or flowers; to bloom; to blow; to flower.

Blossom (n.) To flourish and prosper.

Blossomless (a.) Without blossoms.

Blossomy (a.) Full of blossoms; flowery.

Blotted (imp. & p. p.) of Blot

Blotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blot

Blot (v. t.) To spot, stain, or bespatter, as with ink.

Blot (v. t.) To impair; to damage; to mar; to soil.

Blot (v. t.) To stain with infamy; to disgrace.

Blot (v. t.) To obliterate, as writing with ink; to cancel; to efface; -- generally with out; as, to blot out a word or a sentence. Often figuratively; as, to blot out offenses.

Blot (v. t.) To obscure; to eclipse; to shadow.

Blot (v. t.) To dry, as writing, with blotting paper.

Blot (v. i.) To take a blot; as, this paper blots easily.

Blot (n.) A spot or stain, as of ink on paper; a blur.

Blot (n.) An obliteration of something written or printed; an erasure.

Blot (n.) A spot on reputation; a stain; a disgrace; a reproach; a blemish.

Blot (n.) An exposure of a single man to be taken up.

Blot (n.) A single man left on a point, exposed to be taken up.

Blot (n.) A weak point; a failing; an exposed point or mark.

Blotch (a.) A blot or spot, as of color or of ink; especially a large or irregular spot. Also Fig.; as, a moral blotch.

Blotch (a.) A large pustule, or a coarse eruption.

Blotched (a.) Marked or covered with blotches.

Blotchy (a.) Having blotches.

Bloted (imp. & p. p.) of Blote

Bloting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blote

Blote (v. t.) To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat.

Blotless (a.) Without blot.

Blotter (n.) One who, or that which, blots; esp. a device for absorbing superfluous ink.

Blotter (n.) A wastebook, in which entries of transactions are made as they take place.

Blottesque (a.) Characterized by blots or heavy touches; coarsely depicted; wanting in delineation.

Blotting paper () A kind of thick, bibulous, unsized paper, used to absorb superfluous ink from freshly written manuscript, and thus prevent blots.

Blouse (n.) A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, worn especially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of any material, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army.

Blew (imp.) of Blow

Blown (p. p.) of Blow

Blowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blow

Blow (v. i.) To flower; to blossom; to bloom.

Blow (v. t.) To cause to blossom; to put forth (blossoms or flowers).

Blow (n.) A blossom; a flower; also, a state of blossoming; a mass of blossoms.

Blow (n.) A forcible stroke with the hand, fist, or some instrument, as a rod, a club, an ax, or a sword.

Blow (n.) A sudden or forcible act or effort; an assault.

Blow (n.) The infliction of evil; a sudden calamity; something which produces mental, physical, or financial suffering or loss (esp. when sudden); a buffet.

Blew (imp.) of Blow

Blown (p. p.) of Blow

Blowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blow

Blow (v. i.) To produce a current of air; to move, as air, esp. to move rapidly or with power; as, the wind blows.

Blow (v. i.) To send forth a forcible current of air, as from the mouth or from a pair of bellows.

Blow (v. i.) To breathe hard or quick; to pant; to puff.

Blow (v. i.) To sound on being blown into, as a trumpet.

Blow (v. i.) To spout water, etc., from the blowholes, as a whale.

Blow (v. i.) To be carried or moved by the wind; as, the dust blows in from the street.

Blow (v. i.) To talk loudly; to boast; to storm.

Blow (v. t.) To force a current of air upon with the mouth, or by other means; as, to blow the fire.

Blow (v. t.) To drive by a current air; to impel; as, the tempest blew the ship ashore.

Blow (v. t.) To cause air to pass through by the action of the mouth, or otherwise; to cause to sound, as a wind instrument; as, to blow a trumpet; to blow an organ.

Blow (v. t.) To clear of contents by forcing air through; as, to blow an egg; to blow one's nose.

Blow (v. t.) To burst, shatter, or destroy by an explosion; -- usually with up, down, open, or similar adverb; as, to blow up a building.

Blow (v. t.) To spread by report; to publish; to disclose.

Blow (v. t.) To form by inflation; to swell by injecting air; as, to blow bubbles; to blow glass.

Blow (v. t.) To inflate, as with pride; to puff up.

Blow (v. t.) To put out of breath; to cause to blow from fatigue; as, to blow a horse.

Blow (v. t.) To deposit eggs or larvae upon, or in (meat, etc.).

Blow (n.) A blowing, esp., a violent blowing of the wind; a gale; as, a heavy blow came on, and the ship put back to port.

Blow (n.) The act of forcing air from the mouth, or through or from some instrument; as, to give a hard blow on a whistle or horn; to give the fire a blow with the bellows.

Blow (n.) The spouting of a whale.

Blow (n.) A single heat or operation of the Bessemer converter.

Blow (n.) An egg, or a larva, deposited by a fly on or in flesh, or the act of depositing it.

Blowball (n.) The downy seed head of a dandelion, which children delight to blow away.

Blowen (n.) Alt. of Blowess

Blowess (n.) A prostitute; a courtesan; a strumpet.

Blower (n.) One who, or that which, blows.

Blower (n.) A device for producing a current of air; as: (a) A metal plate temporarily placed before the upper part of a grate or open fire. (b) A machine for producing an artificial blast or current of air by pressure, as for increasing the draft of a furnace, ventilating a building or shaft, cleansing gram, etc.

Blower (n.) A blowing out or excessive discharge of gas from a hole or fissure in a mine.

Blower (n.) The whale; -- so called by seamen, from the circumstance of its spouting up a column of water.

Blower (n.) A small fish of the Atlantic coast (Tetrodon turgidus); the puffer.

Blower (n.) A braggart, or loud talker.

Blowfly (n.) Any species of fly of the genus Musca that deposits its eggs or young larvae (called flyblows and maggots) upon meat or other animal products.

Blowgun (n.) A tube, as of cane or reed, sometimes twelve feet long, through which an arrow or other projectile may be impelled by the force of the breath. It is a weapon much used by certain Indians of America and the West Indies; -- called also blowpipe, and blowtube. See Sumpitan.

Blowhole (n.) A cavern in a cliff, at the water level, opening to the air at its farther extremity, so that the waters rush in with each surge and rise in a lofty jet from the extremity.

Blowhole (n.) A nostril or spiracle in the top of the head of a whale or other cetacean.

Blowhole (n.) A hole in the ice to which whales, seals, etc., come to breathe.

Blowhole (n.) An air hole in a casting.

Blown (p. p. & a.) Swollen; inflated; distended; puffed up, as cattle when gorged with green food which develops gas.

Blown (p. p. & a.) Stale; worthless.

Blown (p. p. & a.) Out of breath; tired; exhausted.

Blown (p. p. & a.) Covered with the eggs and larvae of flies; fly blown.

Blown (p. p. & a.) Opened; in blossom or having blossomed, as a flower.

Blow-off (n.) A blowing off steam, water, etc.;

Blow-off (adj.) as, a blow-off cock or pipe.

Blow-off (adj.) An outburst of temper or excitement.

Blow-out (n.) The cleaning of the flues of a boiler from scale, etc., by a blast of steam.

Blowpipe (n.) A tube for directing a jet of air into a fire or into the flame of a lamp or candle, so as to concentrate the heat on some object.

Blowpipe (n.) A blowgun; a blowtube.

Blowpoint (n.) A child's game.

Blowse (n.) See Blowze.

Blowth (n.) A blossoming; a bloom.

Blowtube (n.) A blowgun.

Blowtube (n.) A similar instrument, commonly of tin, used by boys for discharging paper wads and other light missiles.

Blowtube (n.) A long wrought iron tube, on the end of which the workman gathers a quantity of metal (melted glass), and through which he blows to expand or shape it; -- called also blowing tube, and blowpipe.

Blow valve () See Snifting valve.

Blowy (a.) Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland.

Blowze (n.) A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench.

Blowzed (a.) Having high color from exposure to the weather; ruddy-faced; blowzy; disordered.

Blowzy (a.) Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy.

Blub (v. t. & i.) To swell; to puff out, as with weeping.

Blubber (n.) A bubble.

Blubber (n.) The fat of whales and other large sea animals from which oil is obtained. It lies immediately under the skin and over the muscular flesh.

Blubber (n.) A large sea nettle or medusa.

Blubbered (imp. & p. p.) of Blubber

Blubbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blubber

Blubber (v. i.) To weep noisily, or so as to disfigure the face; to cry in a childish manner.

Blubber (v. t.) To swell or disfigure (the face) with weeping; to wet with tears.

Blubber (v. t.) To give vent to (tears) or utter (broken words or cries); -- with forth or out.

Blubbered (p. p. & a.) Swollen; turgid; as, a blubbered lip.

Blubbering (n.) The act of weeping noisily.

Blubbery (a.) Swollen; protuberant.

Blubbery (a.) Like blubber; gelatinous and quivering; as, a blubbery mass.

Blucher (n.) A kind of half boot, named from the Prussian general Blucher.

Bludgeon (n.) A short stick, with one end loaded, or thicker and heavier that the other, used as an offensive weapon.

Blue (superl.) Having the color of the clear sky, or a hue resembling it, whether lighter or darker; as, the deep, blue sea; as blue as a sapphire; blue violets.

Blue (superl.) Pale, without redness or glare, -- said of a flame; hence, of the color of burning brimstone, betokening the presence of ghosts or devils; as, the candle burns blue; the air was blue with oaths.

Blue (superl.) Low in spirits; melancholy; as, to feel blue.

Blue (superl.) Suited to produce low spirits; gloomy in prospect; as, thongs looked blue.

Blue (superl.) Severe or over strict in morals; gloom; as, blue and sour religionists; suiting one who is over strict in morals; inculcating an impracticable, severe, or gloomy mortality; as, blue laws.

Blue (superl.) Literary; -- applied to women; -- an abbreviation of bluestocking.

Blue (n.) One of the seven colors into which the rays of light divide themselves, when refracted through a glass prism; the color of the clear sky, or a color resembling that, whether lighter or darker; a pigment having such color. Sometimes, poetically, the sky.

Blue (n.) A pedantic woman; a bluestocking.

Blue (pl.) Low spirits; a fit of despondency; melancholy.

Blued (imp. & p. p.) of Blue

Bluing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blue

Blue (v. t.) To make blue; to dye of a blue color; to make blue by heating, as metals, etc.

Blueback (n.) A trout (Salmo oquassa) inhabiting some of the lakes of Maine.

Blueback (n.) A salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) of the Columbia River and northward.

Blueback (n.) An American river herring (Clupea aestivalis), closely allied to the alewife.

Bluebeard (n.) The hero of a mediaeval French nursery legend, who, leaving home, enjoined his young wife not to open a certain room in his castle. She entered it, and found the murdered bodies of his former wives. -- Also used adjectively of a subject which it is forbidden to investigate.

Bluebell (n.) A plant of the genus Campanula, especially the Campanula rotundifolia, which bears blue bell-shaped flowers; the harebell.

Bluebell (n.) A plant of the genus Scilla (Scilla nutans).

Blueberry (n.) The berry of several species of Vaccinium, an ericaceous genus, differing from the American huckleberries in containing numerous minute seeds instead of ten nutlets. The commonest species are V. Pennsylvanicum and V. vacillans. V. corymbosum is the tall blueberry.

Bluebill (n.) A duck of the genus Fuligula. Two American species (F. marila and F. affinis) are common. See Scaup duck.

Bluebird (n.) A small song bird (Sialia sialis), very common in the United States, and, in the north, one of the earliest to arrive in spring. The male is blue, with the breast reddish. It is related to the European robin.

Blue bonnet (n.) Alt. of Blue-bonnet

Blue-bonnet (n.) A broad, flat Scottish cap of blue woolen, or one wearing such cap; a Scotchman.

Blue-bonnet (n.) A plant. Same as Bluebottle.

Blue-bonnet (n.) The European blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus); the bluecap.

Blue book () A parliamentary publication, so called from its blue paper covers.

Blue book () The United States official Biennial Register.

Bluebottle (n.) A plant (Centaurea cyanus) which grows in grain fields. It receives its name from its blue bottle-shaped flowers.

Bluebottle (n.) A large and troublesome species of blowfly (Musca vomitoria). Its body is steel blue.

Bluebreast (n.) A small European bird; the blue-throated warbler.

Bluecap (n.) The bluepoll.

Bluecap (n.) The blue bonnet or blue titmouse.

Bluecap (n.) A Scot; a Scotchman; -- so named from wearing a blue bonnet.

Bluecoat (n.) One dressed in blue, as a soldier, a sailor, a beadle, etc.

Blue-eye (n.) The blue-cheeked honeysucker of Australia.

Blue-eyed (a.) Having blue eyes.

Blue-eyed grass () a grasslike plant (Sisyrinchium anceps), with small flowers of a delicate blue color.

Bluefin (n.) A species of whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) found in Lake Michigan.

Bluefish (n.) A large voracious fish (Pomatomus saitatrix), of the family Carangidae, valued as a food fish, and widely distributed on the American coast. On the New Jersey and Rhode Island coast it is called the horse mackerel, in Virginia saltwater tailor, or skipjack.

Bluefish (n.) A West Indian fish (Platyglossus radiatus), of the family Labridae.

Bluegown (n.) One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars, in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributed certain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman.

Blue grass () A species of grass (Poa compressa) with bluish green stems, valuable in thin gravelly soils; wire grass.

Blue jay () The common jay of the United States (Cyanocitta, or Cyanura, cristata). The predominant color is bright blue.

Blue-john (n.) A name given to fluor spar in Derbyshire, where it is used for ornamental purposes.

Bluely (adv.) With a blue color.

Blueness (n.) The quality of being blue; a blue color.

Bluenose (n.) A nickname for a Nova Scotian.

Bluepoll (n.) A kind of salmon (Salmo Cambricus) found in Wales.

Blueprint () See under Print.

Bluestocking (n.) A literary lady; a female pedant.

Bluestocking (n.) The American avocet (Recurvirostra Americana).

Bluestockingism (n.) The character or manner of a bluestocking; female pedantry.

Bluestone (n.) Blue vitriol.

Bluestone (n.) A grayish blue building stone, as that commonly used in the eastern United States.

Bluethroat (n.) A singing bird of northern Europe and Asia (Cyanecula Suecica), related to the nightingales; -- called also blue-throated robin and blue-throated warbler.

Bluets (a.) A name given to several different species of plants having blue flowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus or bluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium.

Blue-veined (a.) Having blue veins or blue streaks.

Bluewing (n.) The blue-winged teal. See Teal.

Bluey (a.) Bluish.

Bluff (a.) Having a broad, flattened front; as, the bluff bows of a ship.

Bluff (a.) Rising steeply with a flat or rounded front.

Bluff (a.) Surly; churlish; gruff; rough.

Bluff (a.) Abrupt; roughly frank; unceremonious; blunt; brusque; as, a bluff answer; a bluff manner of talking; a bluff sea captain.

Bluff (n.) A high, steep bank, as by a river or the sea, or beside a ravine or plain; a cliff with a broad face.

Bluff (n.) An act of bluffing; an expression of self-confidence for the purpose of intimidation; braggadocio; as, that is only bluff, or a bluff.

Bluff (n.) A game at cards; poker.

Bluffed (imp. & p. p.) of Bluff

Bluffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bluff

Bluff (v. t.) To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on his hand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own hand although it may be of less value.

Bluff (v. t.) To frighten or deter from accomplishing a purpose by making a show of confidence in one's strength or resources; as, he bluffed me off.

Bluff (v. i.) To act as in the game of bluff.

Bluff-bowed (a.) Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.

Bluffer (n.) One who bluffs.

Bluff-headed (a.) Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.

Bluffness (n.) The quality or state of being bluff.

Bluffy (a.) Having bluffs, or bold, steep banks.

Bluffy (a.) Inclined to bo bluff; brusque.

Bluing (n.) The act of rendering blue; as, the bluing of steel.

Bluing (n.) Something to give a bluish tint, as indigo, or preparations used by washerwomen.

Bluish (a.) Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins.

Blundered (imp. & p. p.) of Blunder

Blundering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blunder

Blunder (v. i.) To make a gross error or mistake; as, to blunder in writing or preparing a medical prescription.

Blunder (v. i.) To move in an awkward, clumsy manner; to flounder and stumble.

Blunder (v. t.) To cause to blunder.

Blunder (v. t.) To do or treat in a blundering manner; to confuse.

Blunder (n.) Confusion; disturbance.

Blunder (n.) A gross error or mistake, resulting from carelessness, stupidity, or culpable ignorance.

Blunderbuss (n.) A short gun or firearm, with a large bore, capable of holding a number of balls, and intended to do execution without exact aim.

Blunderbuss (n.) A stupid, blundering fellow.

Blunderer (n.) One who is apt to blunder.

Blunderhead (n.) A stupid, blundering fellow.

Blundering (a.) Characterized by blunders.

Blunderingly (adv.) In a blundering manner.

Blunge (v. t.) To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay.

Blunger (n.) A wooden blade with a cross handle, used for mi/ing the clay in potteries; a plunger.

Blunging (n.) The process of mixing clay in potteries with a blunger.

Blunt (a.) Having a thick edge or point, as an instrument; dull; not sharp.

Blunt (a.) Dull in understanding; slow of discernment; stupid; -- opposed to acute.

Blunt (a.) Abrupt in address; plain; unceremonious; wanting the forms of civility; rough in manners or speech.

Blunt (a.) Hard to impress or penetrate.

Blunted (imp. & p. p.) of Blunt

Blunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blunt

Blunt (v. t.) To dull the edge or point of, by making it thicker; to make blunt.

Blunt (v. t.) To repress or weaken, as any appetite, desire, or power of the mind; to impair the force, keenness, or susceptibility, of; as, to blunt the feelings.

Blunt (n.) A fencer's foil.

Blunt (n.) A short needle with a strong point. See Needle.

Blunt (n.) Money.

Bluntish (a.) Somewhat blunt.

Bluntly (adv.) In a blunt manner; coarsely; plainly; abruptly; without delicacy, or the usual forms of civility.

Bluntness (n.) Want of edge or point; dullness; obtuseness; want of sharpness.

Bluntness (n.) Abruptness of address; rude plainness.

Blunt-witted (n.) Dull; stupid.

Blurred (imp. & p. p.) of Blur

Blurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blur

Blur (v. t.) To render obscure by making the form or outline of confused and uncertain, as by soiling; to smear; to make indistinct and confused; as, to blur manuscript by handling it while damp; to blur the impression of a woodcut by an excess of ink.

Blur (v. t.) To cause imperfection of vision in; to dim; to darken.

Blur (v. t.) To sully; to stain; to blemish, as reputation.

Blur (n.) That which obscures without effacing; a stain; a blot, as upon paper or other substance.

Blur (n.) A dim, confused appearance; indistinctness of vision; as, to see things with a blur; it was all blur.

Blur (n.) A moral stain or blot.

Blurry (a.) Full of blurs; blurred.

Blurted (imp. & p. p.) of Blurt

Blurting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blurt

Blurt (v. t.) To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately; to ejaculate; -- commonly with out.

Blushed (imp. & p. p.) of Blush

Blushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blush

Blush (v. i.) To become suffused with red in the cheeks, as from a sense of shame, modesty, or confusion; to become red from such cause, as the cheeks or face.

Blush (v. i.) To grow red; to have a red or rosy color.

Blush (v. i.) To have a warm and delicate color, as some roses and other flowers.

Blush (v. t.) To suffuse with a blush; to redden; to make roseate.

Blush (v. t.) To express or make known by blushing.

Blush (n.) A suffusion of the cheeks or face with red, as from a sense of shame, confusion, or modesty.

Blush (n.) A red or reddish color; a rosy tint.

Blusher (n.) One that blushes.

Blushet (n.) A modest girl.

Blushful (a.) Full of blushes.

Blushing (a.) Showing blushes; rosy red; having a warm and delicate color like some roses and other flowers; blooming; ruddy; roseate.

Blushing (n.) The act of turning red; the appearance of a reddish color or flush upon the cheeks.

Blushingly (adv.) In a blushing manner; with a blush or blushes; as, to answer or confess blushingly.

Blushless (a.) Free from blushes; incapable of blushing; shameless; impudent.

Blushy (a.) Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy.

Blustered (imp. & p. p.) of Bluster

Blustering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bluster

Bluster (v. i.) To blow fitfully with violence and noise, as wind; to be windy and boisterous, as the weather.

Bluster (v. i.) To talk with noisy violence; to swagger, as a turbulent or boasting person; to act in a noisy, tumultuous way; to play the bully; to storm; to rage.

Bluster (v. t.) To utter, or do, with noisy violence; to force by blustering; to bully.

Bluster (n.) Fitful noise and violence, as of a storm; violent winds; boisterousness.

Bluster (n.) Noisy and violent or threatening talk; noisy and boastful language.

Blusterer (n.) One who, or that which, blusters; a noisy swaggerer.

Blustering (a.) Exhibiting noisy violence, as the wind; stormy; tumultuous.

Blustering (a.) Uttering noisy threats; noisy and swaggering; boisterous.

Blusteringly (adv.) In a blustering manner.

Blusterous (a.) Inclined to bluster; given to blustering; blustering.

Blustrous (a.) Blusterous.

Bo (interj.) An exclamation used to startle or frighten.

Boas (pl. ) of Boa

Boa (n.) A genus of large American serpents, including the boa constrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and the chevalier boa of Peru (B. eques).

Boa (n.) A long, round fur tippet; -- so called from its resemblance in shape to the boa constrictor.

Boa constrictor () A large and powerful serpent of tropical America, sometimes twenty or thirty feet long. See Illustration in Appendix.

Boanerges () Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator.

Boar (n.) The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog.

Board (n.) A piece of timber sawed thin, and of considerable length and breadth as compared with the thickness, -- used for building, etc.

Board (n.) A table to put food upon.

Board (n.) Hence: What is served on a table as food; stated meals; provision; entertainment; -- usually as furnished for pay; as, to work for one's board; the price of board.

Board (n.) A table at which a council or court is held. Hence: A council, convened for business, or any authorized assembly or meeting, public or private; a number of persons appointed or elected to sit in council for the management or direction of some public or private business or trust; as, the Board of Admiralty; a board of trade; a board of directors, trustees, commissioners, etc.

Board (n.) A square or oblong piece of thin wood or other material used for some special purpose, as, a molding board; a board or surface painted or arranged for a game; as, a chessboard; a backgammon board.

Board (n.) Paper made thick and stiff like a board, for book covers, etc.; pasteboard; as, to bind a book in boards.

Board (n.) The stage in a theater; as, to go upon the boards, to enter upon the theatrical profession.

Board (n.) The border or side of anything.

Board (n.) The side of a ship.

Board (n.) The stretch which a ship makes in one tack.

Boarded (imp. & p. p.) of Board

Boarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Board

Board (v. t.) To cover with boards or boarding; as, to board a house.

Board (n.) To go on board of, or enter, as a ship, whether in a hostile or a friendly way.

Board (n.) To enter, as a railway car.

Board (n.) To furnish with regular meals, or with meals and lodgings, for compensation; to supply with daily meals.

Board (n.) To place at board, for compensation; as, to board one's horse at a livery stable.

Board (v. i.) To obtain meals, or meals and lodgings, statedly for compensation; as, he boards at the hotel.

Board (v. t.) To approach; to accost; to address; hence, to woo.

Boardable (a.) That can be boarded, as a ship.

Boarder (n.) One who has food statedly at another's table, or meals and lodgings in his house, for pay, or compensation of any kind.

Boarder (n.) One who boards a ship; one selected to board an enemy's ship.

Boarding (n.) The act of entering a ship, whether with a hostile or a friendly purpose.

Boarding (n.) The act of covering with boards; also, boards, collectively; or a covering made of boards.

Boarding (n.) The act of supplying, or the state of being supplied, with regular or specified meals, or with meals and lodgings, for pay.

Boarfish (n.) A Mediterranean fish (Capros aper), of the family Caproidae; -- so called from the resemblance of the extended lips to a hog's snout.

Boarfish (n.) An Australian percoid fish (Histiopterus recurvirostris), valued as a food fish.

Boarish (a.) Swinish; brutal; cruel.

Boasted (imp. & p. p.) of Boast

Boasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boast

Boast (v. i.) To vaunt one's self; to brag; to say or tell things which are intended to give others a high opinion of one's self or of things belonging to one's self; as, to boast of one's exploits courage, descent, wealth.

Boast (v. i.) To speak in exulting language of another; to glory; to exult.

Boast (v. t.) To display in ostentatious language; to speak of with pride, vanity, or exultation, with a view to self-commendation; to extol.

Boast (v. t.) To display vaingloriously.

Boast (v. t.) To possess or have; as, to boast a name.

Boast (v. t.) To dress, as a stone, with a broad chisel.

Boast (v. t.) To shape roughly as a preparation for the finer work to follow; to cut to the general form required.

Boast (n.) Act of boasting; vaunting or bragging.

Boast (n.) The cause of boasting; occasion of pride or exultation, -- sometimes of laudable pride or exultation.

Boastance (n.) Boasting.

Boaster (n.) One who boasts; a braggart.

Boaster (n.) A stone mason's broad-faced chisel.

Boastful (a.) Given to, or full of, boasting; inclined to boast; vaunting; vainglorious; self-praising.

Boasting (n.) The act of glorying or vaunting; vainglorious speaking; ostentatious display.

Boastingly (adv.) Boastfully; with boasting.

Boastive (a.) Presumptuous.

Boastless (a.) Without boasting or ostentation.

Boat (n.) A small open vessel, or water craft, usually moved by cars or paddles, but often by a sail.

Boat (n.) Hence, any vessel; usually with some epithet descriptive of its use or mode of propulsion; as, pilot boat, packet boat, passage boat, advice boat, etc. The term is sometimes applied to steam vessels, even of the largest class; as, the Cunard boats.

Boat (n.) A vehicle, utensil, or dish, somewhat resembling a boat in shape; as, a stone boat; a gravy boat.

Boated (imp. & p. p.) of Boat

Boating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boat

Boat (v. t.) To transport in a boat; as, to boat goods.

Boat (v. t.) To place in a boat; as, to boat oars.

Boat (v. i.) To go or row in a boat.

Boatable (a.) Such as can be transported in a boat.

Boatable (a.) Navigable for boats, or small river craft.

Boatage (n.) Conveyance by boat; also, a charge for such conveyance.

Boatbill (n.) A wading bird (Cancroma cochlearia) of the tropical parts of South America. Its bill is somewhat like a boat with the keel uppermost.

Boatbill (n.) A perching bird of India, of the genus Eurylaimus.

Boat bug () An aquatic hemipterous insect of the genus Notonecta; -- so called from swimming on its back, which gives it the appearance of a little boat. Called also boat fly, boat insect, boatman, and water boatman.

Boatfuls (pl. ) of Boatful

Boatful (n.) The quantity or amount that fills a boat.

Boathouse (n.) A house for sheltering boats.

Boating (n.) The act or practice of rowing or sailing, esp. as an amusement; carriage in boats.

Boating (n.) In Persia, a punishment of capital offenders, by laying them on the back in a covered boat, where they are left to perish.

Boation (n.) A crying out; a roaring; a bellowing; reverberation.

Boatmen (pl. ) of Boatman

Boatman (n.) A man who manages a boat; a rower of a boat.

Boatman (n.) A boat bug. See Boat bug.

Boatmanship (n.) The art of managing a boat.

Boat-shaped (a.) See Cymbiform.

Boat shell () A marine gastropod of the genus Crepidula. The species are numerous. It is so named from its form and interior deck.

Boat shell () A marine univalve shell of the genus Cymba.

Boatsman (n.) A boatman.

Boatswain (n.) An officer who has charge of the boats, sails, rigging, colors, anchors, cables, cordage, etc., of a ship, and who also summons the crew, and performs other duties.

Boatswain (n.) The jager gull.

Boatswain (n.) The tropic bird.

Boat-tail (n.) A large grackle or blackbird (Quiscalus major), found in the Southern United States.

Boatwomen (pl. ) of Boatwoman

Boatwoman (n.) A woman who manages a boat.

Bob (n.) Anything that hangs so as to play loosely, or with a short abrupt motion, as at the end of a string; a pendant; as, the bob at the end of a kite's tail.

Bob (n.) A knot of worms, or of rags, on a string, used in angling, as for eels; formerly, a worm suitable for bait.

Bob (n.) A small piece of cork or light wood attached to a fishing line to show when a fish is biting; a float.

Bob (n.) The ball or heavy part of a pendulum; also, the ball or weight at the end of a plumb line.

Bob (n.) A small wheel, made of leather, with rounded edges, used in polishing spoons, etc.

Bob (n.) A short, jerking motion; act of bobbing; as, a bob of the head.

Bob (n.) A working beam.

Bob (n.) A knot or short curl of hair; also, a bob wig.

Bob (n.) A peculiar mode of ringing changes on bells.

Bob (n.) The refrain of a song.

Bob (n.) A blow; a shake or jog; a rap, as with the fist.

Bob (n.) A jeer or flout; a sharp jest or taunt; a trick.

Bob (n.) A shilling.

Bobbed (imp. & p. p.) of Bob

Bobbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bob

Bob (n.) To cause to move in a short, jerking manner; to move (a thing) with a bob.

Bob (n.) To strike with a quick, light blow; to tap.

Bob (n.) To cheat; to gain by fraud or cheating; to filch.

Bob (n.) To mock or delude; to cheat.

Bob (n.) To cut short; as, to bob the hair, or a horse's tail.

Bob (v. i.) To have a short, jerking motion; to play to and fro, or up and down; to play loosely against anything.

Bob (v. i.) To angle with a bob. See Bob, n., 2 & 3.

Bobac (n.) The Poland marmot (Arctomys bobac).

Bobance (n.) A boasting.

Bobber (n.) One who, or that which, bobs.

Bobbery (n.) A squabble; a tumult; a noisy disturbance; as, to raise a bobbery.

Bobbin (n.) A small pin, or cylinder, formerly of bone, now most commonly of wood, used in the making of pillow lace. Each thread is wound on a separate bobbin which hangs down holding the thread at a slight tension.

Bobbin (n.) A spool or reel of various material and construction, with a head at one or both ends, and sometimes with a hole bored through its length by which it may be placed on a spindle or pivot. It is used to hold yarn or thread, as in spinning or warping machines, looms, sewing machines, etc.

Bobbin (n.) The little rounded piece of wood, at the end of a latch string, which is pulled to raise the latch.

Bobbin (n.) A fine cord or narrow braid.

Bobbin (n.) A cylindrical or spool-shaped coil or insulated wire, usually containing a core of soft iron which becomes magnetic when the wire is traversed by an electrical current.

Bobbinet (n.) A kind of cotton lace which is wrought by machines, and not by hand.

Bobbinwork (n.) Work woven with bobbins.

Bobbish (a.) Hearty; in good spirits.

Bobby (n.) A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, who remodeled the police force. See Peeler.

Bob-cherry (n.) A play among children, in which a cherry, hung so as to bob against the mouth, is to be caught with the teeth.

Bobfly (n.) The fly at the end of the leader; an end fly.

Bobolink (n.) An American singing bird (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). The male is black and white; the female is brown; -- called also, ricebird, reedbird, and Boblincoln.

Bobsled (n.) Alt. of Bobsleigh

Bobsleigh (n.) A short sled, mostly used as one of a pair connected by a reach or coupling; also, the compound sled so formed.

Bobstay (n.) A rope or chain to confine the bowsprit of a ship downward to the stem or cutwater; -- usually in the pl.

Bobtail (n.) An animal (as a horse or dog) with a short tail.

Bobtail (a.) Bobtailed.

Bobtailed (a.) Having the tail cut short, or naturally short; curtailed; as, a bobtailed horse or dog; a bobtailed coat.

Bobwhite (n.) The common quail of North America (Colinus, or Ortyx, Virginianus); -- so called from its note.

Bob wig () A short wig with bobs or short curls; -- called also bobtail wig.

Bocal (n.) A cylindrical glass vessel, with a large and short neck.

Bocardo (n.) A form of syllogism of which the first and third propositions are particular negatives, and the middle term a universal affirmative.

Bocardo (n.) A prison; -- originally the name of the old north gate in Oxford, which was used as a prison.

Bocasine (n.) A sort of fine buckram.

Bocca (n.) The round hole in the furnace of a glass manufactory through which the fused glass is taken out.

Boce (n.) A European fish (Box vulgaris), having a compressed body and bright colors; -- called also box, and bogue.

Bock beer () A strong beer, originally made in Bavaria.

Bockelet (n.) A kind of long-winged hawk; -- called also bockerel, and bockeret.

Bockey (n.) A bowl or vessel made from a gourd.

Bocking (n.) A coarse woolen fabric, used for floor cloths, to cover carpets, etc.; -- so called from the town of Bocking, in England, where it was first made.

Bockland (n.) See Bookland.

Boddice (n.) See Bodick.

Boded (imp. & p. p.) of Bode

Boding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bode

Bode (v. t.) To indicate by signs, as future events; to be the omen of; to portend to presage; to foreshow.

Bode (v. i.) To foreshow something; to augur.

Bode (n.) An omen; a foreshadowing.

Bode (n.) A bid; an offer.

Bode (v. t.) A messenger; a herald.

Bode (n.) A stop; a halting; delay.

Bode (imp. & p. p.) Abode.

Bode (p. p.) Bid or bidden.

Bodeful (a.) Portentous; ominous.

Bodement (n.) An omen; a prognostic.

Bodge (n.) A botch; a patch.

Bodged (imp. & p. p.) of Bodge

Bodge (v. t.) To botch; to mend clumsily; to patch.

Bodge (v. i.) See Budge.

Bodian (n.) A large food fish (Diagramma lineatum), native of the East Indies.

Bodice (n.) A kind of under waist stiffened with whalebone, etc., worn esp. by women; a corset; stays.

Bodice (n.) A close-fitting outer waist or vest forming the upper part of a woman's dress, or a portion of it.

Bodiced (a.) Wearing a bodice.

Bodied (a.) Having a body; -- usually in composition; as, able-bodied.

Bodiless (a.) Having no body.

Bodiless (a.) Without material form; incorporeal.

Bodiliness (n.) Corporeality.

Bodily (a.) Having a body or material form; physical; corporeal; consisting of matter.

Bodily (a.) Of or pertaining to the body, in distinction from the mind.

Bodily (a.) Real; actual; put in execution.

Bodily (adv.) Corporeally; in bodily form; united with a body or matter; in the body.

Bodily (adv.) In respect to, or so as to affect, the entire body or mass; entirely; all at once; completely; as, to carry away bodily. Leapt bodily below.

Boding (a.) Foreshowing; presaging; ominous.

Boding (n.) A prognostic; an omen; a foreboding.

Bodkin (n.) A dagger.

Bodkin (n.) An implement of steel, bone, ivory, etc., with a sharp point, for making holes by piercing; a /tiletto; an eyeleteer.

Bodkin (n.) A sharp tool, like an awl, used for picking /ut letters from a column or page in making corrections.

Bodkin (n.) A kind of needle with a large eye and a blunt point, for drawing tape, ribbon, etc., through a loop or a hem; a tape needle.

Bodkin (n.) A kind of pin used by women to fasten the hair.

Bodkin (n.) See Baudekin.

Bodle (n.) A small Scotch coin worth about one sixth of an English penny.

Bodleian (a.) Of or pertaining to Sir Thomas Bodley, or to the celebrated library at Oxford, founded by him in the sixteenth century.

Bodock (n.) The Osage orange.

Bodrage (n.) A raid.

Bodies (pl. ) of Body

Body (n.) The material organized substance of an animal, whether living or dead, as distinguished from the spirit, or vital principle; the physical person.

Body (n.) The trunk, or main part, of a person or animal, as distinguished from the limbs and head; the main, central, or principal part, as of a tree, army, country, etc.

Body (n.) The real, as opposed to the symbolical; the substance, as opposed to the shadow.

Body (n.) A person; a human being; -- frequently in composition; as, anybody, nobody.

Body (n.) A number of individuals spoken of collectively, usually as united by some common tie, or as organized for some purpose; a collective whole or totality; a corporation; as, a legislative body; a clerical body.

Body (n.) A number of things or particulars embodied in a system; a general collection; as, a great body of facts; a body of laws or of divinity.

Body (n.) Any mass or portion of matter; any substance distinct from others; as, a metallic body; a moving body; an aeriform body.

Body (n.) Amount; quantity; extent.

Body (n.) That part of a garment covering the body, as distinguished from the parts covering the limbs.

Body (n.) The bed or box of a vehicle, on or in which the load is placed; as, a wagon body; a cart body.

Body (n.) The shank of a type, or the depth of the shank (by which the size is indicated); as, a nonpareil face on an agate body.

Body (n.) A figure that has length, breadth, and thickness; any solid figure.

Body (n.) Consistency; thickness; substance; strength; as, this color has body; wine of a good body.

Bodied (imp. & p. p.) of Body

Bodying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Body

Body (v. t.) To furnish with, or as with, a body; to produce in definite shape; to embody.

Bodyguard (n.) A guard to protect or defend the person; a lifeguard.

Bodyguard (n.) Retinue; attendance; following.

Boeotian (a.) Of or pertaining to Boeotia; hence, stupid; dull; obtuse.

Boeotian (n.) A native of Boeotia; also, one who is dull and ignorant.

Boer (n.) A colonist or farmer in South Africa of Dutch descent.

Boes (3d sing. pr.) Behoves or behooves.

Bog (n.) A quagmire filled with decayed moss and other vegetable matter; wet spongy ground where a heavy body is apt to sink; a marsh; a morass.

Bog (n.) A little elevated spot or clump of earth, roots, and grass, in a marsh or swamp.

Bogged (imp. & p. p.) of Bog

Bogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bog

Bog (v. t.) To sink, as into a bog; to submerge in a bog; to cause to sink and stick, as in mud and mire.

Bogberry (n.) The small cranberry (Vaccinium oxycoccus), which grows in boggy places.

Bogey (n.) A goblin; a bugbear. See Bogy.

Boggard (n.) A bogey.

Boggled (imp. & p. p.) of Boggle

Boggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boggle

Boggle (n.) To stop or hesitate as if suddenly frightened, or in doubt, or impeded by unforeseen difficulties; to take alarm; to exhibit hesitancy and indecision.

Boggle (n.) To do anything awkwardly or unskillfully.

Boggle (n.) To play fast and loose; to dissemble.

Boggle (v. t.) To embarrass with difficulties; to make a bungle or botch of.

Boggler (n.) One who boggles.

Bogglish (a.) Doubtful; skittish.

Boggy (a.) Consisting of, or containing, a bog or bogs; of the nature of a bog; swampy; as, boggy land.

Bogie (n.) A four-wheeled truck, having a certain amount of play around a vertical axis, used to support in part a locomotive on a railway track.

Bogle (n.) A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear.

Bogsucker (n.) The American woodcock; -- so called from its feeding among the bogs.

Bogtrotter (n.) One who lives in a boggy country; -- applied in derision to the lowest class of Irish.

Bogtrotting (a.) Living among bogs.

Bogue (v. i.) To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- said only of inferior craft.

Bogue (n.) The boce; -- called also bogue bream. See Boce.

Bogus (a.) Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally applied to counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit.

Bogus (n.) A liquor made of rum and molasses.

Bogwood (n.) The wood of trees, esp. of oaks, dug up from peat bogs. It is of a shining black or ebony color, and is largely used for making ornaments.

Bogies (pl. ) of Bogy

Bogy (n.) A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear.

Bohea (n.) Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea.

Bohemia (n.) A country of central Europe.

Bohemia (n.) Fig.: The region or community of social Bohemians. See Bohemian, n., 3.

Bohemian (a.) Of or pertaining to Bohemia, or to the language of its ancient inhabitants or their descendants. See Bohemian, n., 2.

Bohemian (n.) Of or pertaining to a social gypsy or Bohemian (see Bohemian, n., 3); vagabond; unconventional; free and easy.

Bohemian (n.) A native of Bohemia.

Bohemian (n.) The language of the Czechs (the ancient inhabitants of Bohemia), the richest and most developed of the dialects of the Slavic family.

Bohemian (n.) A restless vagabond; -- originally, an idle stroller or gypsy (as in France) thought to have come from Bohemia; in later times often applied to an adventurer in art or literature, of irregular, unconventional habits, questionable tastes, or free morals.

Bohemianism (n.) The characteristic conduct or methods of a Bohemian.

Bohun upas () See Upas.

Boiar (n.) See Boyar.

Boiled (imp. & p. p.) of Boil

Boiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boil

Boil (v.) To be agitated, or tumultuously moved, as a liquid by the generation and rising of bubbles of steam (or vapor), or of currents produced by heating it to the boiling point; to be in a state of ebullition; as, the water boils.

Boil (v.) To be agitated like boiling water, by any other cause than heat; to bubble; to effervesce; as, the boiling waves.

Boil (v.) To pass from a liquid to an aeriform state or vapor when heated; as, the water boils away.

Boil (v.) To be moved or excited with passion; to be hot or fervid; as, his blood boils with anger.

Boil (v.) To be in boiling water, as in cooking; as, the potatoes are boiling.

Boil (v. t.) To heat to the boiling point, or so as to cause ebullition; as, to boil water.

Boil (v. t.) To form, or separate, by boiling or evaporation; as, to boil sugar or salt.

Boil (v. t.) To subject to the action of heat in a boiling liquid so as to produce some specific effect, as cooking, cleansing, etc.; as, to boil meat; to boil clothes.

Boil (v. t.) To steep or soak in warm water.

Boil (n.) Act or state of boiling.

Boil (n.) A hard, painful, inflamed tumor, which, on suppuration, discharges pus, mixed with blood, and discloses a small fibrous mass of dead tissue, called the core.

Boilary (n.) See Boilery.

Boiled (a.) Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of a boiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes.

Boiler (n.) One who boils.

Boiler (n.) A vessel in which any thing is boiled.

Boiler (n.) A strong metallic vessel, usually of wrought iron plates riveted together, or a composite structure variously formed, in which steam is generated for driving engines, or for heating, cooking, or other purposes.

Boilery (n.) A place and apparatus for boiling, as for evaporating brine in salt making.

Boiling (a.) Heated to the point of bubbling; heaving with bubbles; in tumultuous agitation, as boiling liquid; surging; seething; swelling with heat, ardor, or passion.

Boiling (n.) The act of ebullition or of tumultuous agitation.

Boiling (n.) Exposure to the action of a hot liquid.

Boilingly (adv.) With boiling or ebullition.

Bois d'arc () The Osage orange (Maclura aurantiaca).

Bois durci () A hard, highly polishable composition, made of fine sawdust from hard wood (as rosewood) mixed with blood, and pressed.

Boist (n.) A box.

Boisterous (a.) Rough or rude; unbending; unyielding; strong; powerful.

Boisterous (a.) Exhibiting tumultuous violence and fury; acting with noisy turbulence; violent; rough; stormy.

Boisterous (a.) Noisy; rough; turbulent; as, boisterous mirth; boisterous behavior.

Boisterous (a.) Vehement; excessive.

Boisterously (adv.) In a boisterous manner.

Boisterousness (n.) The state or quality of being boisterous; turbulence; disorder; tumultuousness.

Boistous (a.) Rough or rude; coarse; strong; violent; boisterous; noisy.

Bojanus organ () A glandular organ of bivalve mollusca, serving in part as a kidney.

Bokadam (n.) See Cerberus.

Boke (v. t. & i.) To poke; to thrust.

Bolar (a.) Of or pertaining to bole or clay; partaking of the nature and qualities of bole; clayey.

Bolas (n. sing. & pl.) A kind of missile weapon consisting of one, two, or more balls of stone, iron, or other material, attached to the ends of a leather cord; -- used by the Gauchos of South America, and others, for hurling at and entangling an animal.

Bold (n.) Forward to meet danger; venturesome; daring; not timorous or shrinking from risk; brave; courageous.

Bold (n.) Exhibiting or requiring spirit and contempt of danger; planned with courage; daring; vigorous.

Bold (n.) In a bad sense, too forward; taking undue liberties; over assuming or confident; lacking proper modesty or restraint; rude; impudent.

Bold (n.) Somewhat overstepping usual bounds, or conventional rules, as in art, literature, etc.; taking liberties in composition or expression; as, the figures of an author are bold.

Bold (n.) Standing prominently out to view; markedly conspicuous; striking the eye; in high relief.

Bold (n.) Steep; abrupt; prominent.

Bold eagle () an Australian eagle (Aquila audax), which destroys lambs and even the kangaroo.

Bold (v. t.) To make bold or daring.

Bold (v. i.) To be or become bold.

Boldened (imp. & p. p.) of Bolden

Bolden (v. t.) To make bold; to encourage; to embolden.

Bold-faced (a.) Somewhat impudent; lacking modesty; as, a bold-faced woman.

Bold-faced (a.) Having a conspicuous or heavy face.

Boldly (adv.) In a bold manner.

Boldness (n.) The state or quality of being bold.

Boldo (n.) Alt. of Boldu

Boldu (n.) A fragrant evergreen shrub of Chili (Peumus Boldus). The bark is used in tanning, the wood for making charcoal, the leaves in medicine, and the drupes are eaten.

Bole (n.) The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it.

Bole (n.) An aperture, with a wooden shutter, in the wall of a house, for giving, occasionally, air or light; also, a small closet.

Bole (n.) A measure. See Boll, n., 2.

Bole (n.) Any one of several varieties of friable earthy clay, usually colored more or less strongly red by oxide of iron, and used to color and adulterate various substances. It was formerly used in medicine. It is composed essentially of hydrous silicates of alumina, or more rarely of magnesia. See Clay, and Terra alba.

Bole (n.) A bolus; a dose.

Bolection (n.) A projecting molding round a panel. Same as Bilection.

Bolero (n.) A Spanish dance, or the lively music which accompanies it.

bolete (n.) any fungus of the family Boletaceae.

Boletic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the Boletus.

Boletus (n.) A genus of fungi having the under side of the pileus or cap composed of a multitude of fine separate tubes. A few are edible, and others very poisonous.

Boley (n.) Alt. of Bolye

Bolye (n.) Same as Booly.

Bolide (n.) A kind of bright meteor; a bolis.

Bolis (n.) A meteor or brilliant shooting star, followed by a train of light or sparks; esp. one which explodes.

Bolivian (a.) Of or pertaining to Bolivia.

Bolivian (n.) A native of Bolivia.

Boll (n.) The pod or capsule of a plant, as of flax or cotton; a pericarp of a globular form.

Boll (n.) A Scotch measure, formerly in use: for wheat and beans it contained four Winchester bushels; for oats, barley, and potatoes, six bushels. A boll of meal is 140 lbs. avoirdupois. Also, a measure for salt of two bushels.

Bolled (imp. & p. p.) of Boll

Boll (v. i.) To form a boll or seed vessel; to go to seed.

Bollandists (n. pl.) The Jesuit editors of the Acta Sanctorum, or Lives of the Saints; -- named from John Bolland, who began the work.

Bollard (n.) An upright wooden or iron post in a boat or on a dock, used in veering or fastening ropes.

Bollen (a.) See Boln, a.

Bolling (v. t.) A tree from which the branches have been cut; a pollard.

Bollworm (n.) The larva of a moth (Heliothis armigera) which devours the bolls or unripe pods of the cotton plant, often doing great damage to the crops.

Boln (v. i.) To swell; to puff.

Boln (a.) Alt. of Bollen

Bollen (a.) Swollen; puffed out.

Bologna (n.) A city of Italy which has given its name to various objects.

Bologna (n.) A Bologna sausage.

Bolognese (a.) Of or pertaining to Bologna.

Bolognese (n.) A native of Bologna.

Bolognian (a. & n.) Bolognese.

Bolometer (n.) An instrument for measuring minute quantities of radiant heat, especially in different parts of the spectrum; -- called also actinic balance, thermic balance.

Bolster (n.) A long pillow or cushion, used to support the head of a person lying on a bed; -- generally laid under the pillows.

Bolster (n.) A pad, quilt, or anything used to hinder pressure, support any part of the body, or make a bandage sit easy upon a wounded part; a compress.

Bolster (n.) Anything arranged to act as a support, as in various forms of mechanism, etc.

Bolster (n.) A cushioned or a piece part of a saddle.

Bolster (n.) A cushioned or a piece of soft wood covered with tarred canvas, placed on the trestletrees and against the mast, for the collars of the shrouds to rest on, to prevent chafing.

Bolster (n.) Anything used to prevent chafing.

Bolster (n.) A plate of iron or a mass of wood under the end of a bridge girder, to keep the girder from resting directly on the abutment.

Bolster (n.) A transverse bar above the axle of a wagon, on which the bed or body rests.

Bolster (n.) The crossbeam forming the bearing piece of the body of a railway car; the central and principal cross beam of a car truck.

Bolster (n.) the perforated plate in a punching machine on which anything rests when being punched.

Bolster (n.) That part of a knife blade which abuts upon the end of the handle.

Bolster (n.) The metallic end of a pocketknife handle.

Bolster (n.) The rolls forming the ends or sides of the Ionic capital.

Bolster (n.) A block of wood on the carriage of a siege gun, upon which the breech of the gun rests when arranged for transportation.

Bolstered (imp. & p. p.) of Bolster

Bolstering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bolster

Bolster (v. t.) To support with a bolster or pillow.

Bolster (v. t.) To support, hold up, or maintain with difficulty or unusual effort; -- often with up.

Bolstered (a.) Supported; upheld.

Bolstered (a.) Swelled out.

Bolsterer (n.) A supporter.

Bolt (n.) A shaft or missile intended to be shot from a crossbow or catapult, esp. a short, stout, blunt-headed arrow; a quarrel; an arrow, or that which resembles an arrow; a dart.

Bolt (n.) Lightning; a thunderbolt.

Bolt (n.) A strong pin, of iron or other material, used to fasten or hold something in place, often having a head at one end and screw thread cut upon the other end.

Bolt (n.) A sliding catch, or fastening, as for a door or gate; the portion of a lock which is shot or withdrawn by the action of the key.

Bolt (n.) An iron to fasten the legs of a prisoner; a shackle; a fetter.

Bolt (n.) A compact package or roll of cloth, as of canvas or silk, often containing about forty yards.

Bolt (n.) A bundle, as of oziers.

Bolted (imp. & p. p.) of Bolt

Bolting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bolt

Bolt (v. t.) To shoot; to discharge or drive forth.

Bolt (v. t.) To utter precipitately; to blurt or throw out.

Bolt (v. t.) To swallow without chewing; as, to bolt food.

Bolt (v. t.) To refuse to support, as a nomination made by a party to which one has belonged or by a caucus in which one has taken part.

Bolt (v. t.) To cause to start or spring forth; to dislodge, as conies, rabbits, etc.

Bolt (v. t.) To fasten or secure with, or as with, a bolt or bolts, as a door, a timber, fetters; to shackle; to restrain.

Bolt (v. i.) To start forth like a bolt or arrow; to spring abruptly; to come or go suddenly; to dart; as, to bolt out of the room.

Bolt (v. i.) To strike or fall suddenly like a bolt.

Bolt (v. i.) To spring suddenly aside, or out of the regular path; as, the horse bolted.

Bolt (v. i.) To refuse to support a nomination made by a party or a caucus with which one has been connected; to break away from a party.

Bolt (adv.) In the manner of a bolt; suddenly; straight; unbendingly.

Bolt (v. i.) A sudden spring or start; a sudden spring aside; as, the horse made a bolt.

Bolt (v. i.) A sudden flight, as to escape creditors.

Bolt (v. i.) A refusal to support a nomination made by the party with which one has been connected; a breaking away from one's party.

Bolted (imp. & p. p.) of Bolt

Bolting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bolt

Bolt (v. t.) To sift or separate the coarser from the finer particles of, as bran from flour, by means of a bolter; to separate, assort, refine, or purify by other means.

Bolt (v. t.) To separate, as if by sifting or bolting; -- with out.

Bolt (v. t.) To discuss or argue privately, and for practice, as cases at law.

Bolt (n.) A sieve, esp. a long fine sieve used in milling for bolting flour and meal; a bolter.

Boltel (n.) See Boultel.

Bolter (n.) One who bolts; esp.: (a) A horse which starts suddenly aside. (b) A man who breaks away from his party.

Bolter (n.) One who sifts flour or meal.

Bolter (n.) An instrument or machine for separating bran from flour, or the coarser part of meal from the finer; a sieve.

Bolter (n.) A kind of fishing line. See Boulter.

Bolthead (n.) A long, straight-necked, glass vessel for chemical distillations; -- called also a matrass or receiver.

Bolthead (n.) The head of a bolt.

Bolting (n.) A darting away; a starting off or aside.

Bolting (n.) A sifting, as of flour or meal.

Bolting (n.) A private arguing of cases for practice by students, as in the Inns of Court.

Boltonite (n.) A granular mineral of a grayish or yellowish color, found in Bolton, Massachusetts. It is a silicate of magnesium, belonging to the chrysolite family.

Boltrope (n.) A rope stitched to the edges of a sail to strengthen the sail.

Boltsprit (n.) See Bowsprit.

Bolty (n.) An edible fish of the Nile (genus Chromis).

Boluses (pl. ) of Bolus

Bolus (n.) A rounded mass of anything, esp. a large pill.

Bom (n.) A large American serpent, so called from the sound it makes.

Bomb (n.) A great noise; a hollow sound.

Bomb (n.) A shell; esp. a spherical shell, like those fired from mortars. See Shell.

Bomb (n.) A bomb ketch.

Bomb (v. t.) To bombard.

Bomb (v. i.) To sound; to boom; to make a humming or buzzing sound.

Bombace (n.) Cotton; padding.

Bombard (n.) A piece of heavy ordnance formerly used for throwing stones and other ponderous missiles. It was the earliest kind of cannon.

Bombard (n.) A bombardment.

Bombard (n.) A large drinking vessel or can, or a leather bottle, for carrying liquor or beer.

Bombard (n.) Padded breeches.

Bombard (n.) See Bombardo.

Bombarded (imp. & p. p.) of Bombard

Bombarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bombard

Bombard (v. t.) To attack with bombards or with artillery; especially, to throw shells, hot shot, etc., at or into.

Bombardier (n.) One who used or managed a bombard; an artilleryman; a gunner.

Bombardier (n.) A noncommissioned officer in the British artillery.

Bombardman (n.) One who carried liquor or beer in a can or bombard.

Bombardment (n.) An attack upon a fortress or fortified town, with shells, hot shot, rockets, etc.; the act of throwing bombs and shot into a town or fortified place.

Bombardo (n.) Alt. of Bombardon

Bombardon (n.) Originally, a deep-toned instrument of the oboe or bassoon family; thence, a bass reed stop on the organ. The name bombardon is now given to a brass instrument, the lowest of the saxhorns, in tone resembling the ophicleide.

Bombasine (n.) Same as Bombazine.

Bombast (n.) Originally, cotton, or cotton wool.

Bombast (n.) Cotton, or any soft, fibrous material, used as stuffing for garments; stuffing; padding.

Bombast (n.) Fig.: High-sounding words; an inflated style; language above the dignity of the occasion; fustian.

Bombast (a.) High-sounding; inflated; big without meaning; magniloquent; bombastic.

Bombast (v. t.) To swell or fill out; to pad; to inflate.

Bombastic (a.) Alt. of Bombastical

Bombastical (a.) Characterized by bombast; high-sounding; inflated.

Bombastry (n.) Swelling words without much meaning; bombastic language; fustian.

Bombax (n.) A genus of trees, called also the silkcotton tree; also, a tree of the genus Bombax.

Bombazet Bombazette (n.) A sort of thin woolen cloth. It is of various colors, and may be plain or twilled.

Bombazine (n.) A twilled fabric for dresses, of which the warp is silk, and the weft worsted. Black bombazine has been much used for mourning garments.

Bombic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the silkworm; as, bombic acid.

Bombilate (n.) To hum; to buzz.

Bombilation (n.) A humming sound; a booming.

Bombinate (v. i.) To hum; to boom.

Bombination (n.) A humming or buzzing.

Bomboloes (pl. ) of Bombolo

Bombolo (n.) A thin spheroidal glass retort or flask, used in the sublimation of camphor.

Bombproof (a.) Secure against the explosive force of bombs.

Bombproof (n.) A structure which heavy shot and shell will not penetrate.

Bombshell (n.) A bomb. See Bomb, n.

Bombycid (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Bombyx, or the family Bombycidae.

Bombycinous (a.) Silken; made of silk.

Bombycinous (a.) Being of the color of the silkworm; transparent with a yellow tint.

Bombylious (a.) Buzzing, like a bumblebee; as, the bombylious noise of the horse fly.

Bombyx (n.) A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm moth. See Silkworm.

Bon (a.) Good; valid as security for something.

Bon-accord (n.) Good will; good fellowship; agreement.

Bona fide () In or with good faith; without fraud or deceit; real or really; actual or actually; genuine or genuinely; as, you must proceed bona fide; a bona fide purchaser or transaction.

Bonair (a.) Gentle; courteous; complaisant; yielding.

Bonanza (n.) In mining, a rich mine or vein of silver or gold; hence, anything which is a mine of wealth or yields a large income.

Bonapartean (a.) Of or pertaining to Napoleon Bonaparte or his family.

Bonapartism (n.) The policy of Bonaparte or of the Bonapartes.

Bonapartist (n.) One attached to the policy or family of Bonaparte, or of the Bonapartes.

Bona peritura () Perishable goods.

Bona roba () A showy wanton; a courtesan.

Bonasus (n.) Alt. of Bonassus

Bonassus (n.) The aurochs or European bison. See Aurochs.

Bonbon (n.) Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty.

Bonce (n.) A boy's game played with large marbles.

Bonchretien (n.) A name given to several kinds of pears. See Bartlett.

Boncilate (n.) A substance composed of ground bone, mineral matters, etc., hardened by pressure, and used for making billiard balls, boxes, etc.

Bond (n.) That which binds, ties, fastens, or confines, or by which anything is fastened or bound, as a cord, chain, etc.; a band; a ligament; a shackle or a manacle.

Bond (n.) The state of being bound; imprisonment; captivity, restraint.

Bond (n.) A binding force or influence; a cause of union; a uniting tie; as, the bonds of fellowship.

Bond (n.) Moral or political duty or obligation.

Bond (n.) A writing under seal, by which a person binds himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, to pay a certain sum on or before a future day appointed. This is a single bond. But usually a condition is added, that, if the obligor shall do a certain act, appear at a certain place, conform to certain rules, faithfully perform certain duties, or pay a certain sum of money, on or before a time specified, the obligation shall be void; otherwise it shall remain in full force. If the condition is not performed, the bond becomes forfeited, and the obligor and his heirs are liable to the payment of the whole sum.

Bond (n.) An instrument (of the nature of the ordinary legal bond) made by a government or a corporation for purpose of borrowing money; as, a government, city, or railway bond.

Bond (n.) The state of goods placed in a bonded warehouse till the duties are paid; as, merchandise in bond.

Bond (n.) The union or tie of the several stones or bricks forming a wall. The bricks may be arranged for this purpose in several different ways, as in English or block bond (Fig. 1), where one course consists of bricks with their ends toward the face of the wall, called headers, and the next course of bricks with their lengths parallel to the face of the wall, called stretchers; Flemish bond (Fig.2), where each course consists of headers and stretchers alternately, so laid as always to break joints; Cross bond, which differs from the English by the change of the second stretcher line so that its joints come in the middle of the first, and the same position of stretchers comes back every fifth line; Combined cross and English bond, where the inner part of the wall is laid in the one method, the outer in the other.

Bond (n.) A unit of chemical attraction; as, oxygen has two bonds of affinity. It is often represented in graphic formulae by a short line or dash. See Diagram of Benzene nucleus, and Valence.

Bonded (imp. & p. p.) of Bond

Bonding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bond

Bond (v. t.) To place under the conditions of a bond; to mortgage; to secure the payment of the duties on (goods or merchandise) by giving a bond.

Bond (v. t.) To dispose in building, as the materials of a wall, so as to secure solidity.

Bond (n.) A vassal or serf; a slave.

Bond (a.) In a state of servitude or slavery; captive.

Bondage (a.) The state of being bound; condition of being under restraint; restraint of personal liberty by compulsion; involuntary servitude; slavery; captivity.

Bondage (a.) Obligation; tie of duty.

Bondage (a.) Villenage; tenure of land on condition of doing the meanest services for the owner.

Bondager (n.) A field worker, esp. a woman who works in the field.

Bondar (n.) A small quadruped of Bengal (Paradoxurus bondar), allied to the genet; -- called also musk cat.

Bonded (a.) Placed under, or covered by, a bond, as for the payment of duties, or for conformity to certain regulations.

Bonder (n.) One who places goods under bond or in a bonded warehouse.

Bonder (n.) A bonding stone or brick; a bondstone.

Bonder (n.) A freeholder on a small scale.

Bondholder (n.) A person who holds the bonds of a public or private corporation for the payment of money at a certain time.

Bondmaid (n.) A female slave, or one bound to service without wages, as distinguished from a hired servant.

Bondmen (pl. ) of Bondman

Bondman (n.) A man slave, or one bound to service without wages.

Bondman (n.) A villain, or tenant in villenage.

Bond servant () A slave; one who is bound to service without wages.

Bond service () The condition of a bond servant; service without wages; slavery.

Bondslave (n.) A person in a state of slavery; one whose person and liberty are subjected to the authority of a master.

Bondsmen (pl. ) of Bondsman

Bondsman (n.) A slave; a villain; a serf; a bondman.

Bondsman (n.) A surety; one who is bound, or who gives security, for another.

Bondstone (n.) A stone running through a wall from one face to another, to bind it together; a binding stone.

Bondswoman (n.) See Bondwoman.

Bonduc (n.) See Nicker tree.

Bondwomen (pl. ) of Bondwoman

Bondwoman (n.) A woman who is a slave, or in bondage.

Bone (n.) The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrate animals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcic phosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone.

Bone (n.) One of the pieces or parts of an animal skeleton; as, a rib or a thigh bone; a bone of the arm or leg; also, any fragment of bony substance. (pl.) The frame or skeleton of the body.

Bone (n.) Anything made of bone, as a bobbin for weaving bone lace.

Bone (n.) Two or four pieces of bone held between the fingers and struck together to make a kind of music.

Bone (n.) Dice.

Bone (n.) Whalebone; hence, a piece of whalebone or of steel for a corset.

Bone (n.) Fig.: The framework of anything.

Boned (imp. & p. p.) of Bone

Boning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bone

Bone (v. t.) To withdraw bones from the flesh of, as in cookery.

Bone (v. t.) To put whalebone into; as, to bone stays.

Bone (v. t.) To fertilize with bone.

Bone (v. t.) To steal; to take possession of.

Bone (v. t.) To sight along an object or set of objects, to see if it or they be level or in line, as in carpentry, masonry, and surveying.

Boneache (n.) Pain in the bones.

Boneblack (n.) See Bone black, under Bone, n.

Boned (a.) Having (such) bones; -- used in composition; as, big-boned; strong-boned.

Boned (a.) Deprived of bones; as, boned turkey or codfish.

Boned (a.) Manured with bone; as, boned land.

Bonedog (n.) The spiny dogfish.

Bonefish (n.) See Ladyfish.

Boneless (a.) Without bones.

Boneset (n.) A medicinal plant, the thoroughwort (Eupatorium perfoliatum). Its properties are diaphoretic and tonic.

Bonesetter (n.) One who sets broken or dislocated bones; -- commonly applied to one, not a regular surgeon, who makes an occupation of setting bones.

Boneshaw (n.) Sciatica.

Bonetta (n.) See Bonito.

Bonfire (n.) A large fire built in the open air, as an expression of public joy and exultation, or for amusement.

Bongrace (n.) A projecting bonnet or shade to protect the complexion; also, a wide-brimmed hat.

Bonhomie (n.) Alt. of Bonhommie

Bonhommie (n.) good nature; pleasant and easy manner.

Bonibell (n.) See Bonnibel.

Boniface (n.) An innkeeper.

Boniform (a.) Sensitive or responsive to moral excellence.

Bonify (v. t.) To convert into, or make, good.

Boniness (n.) The condition or quality of being bony.

Boning (n.) The clearing of bones from fish or meat.

Boning (n.) The manuring of land with bones.

Boning (n.) A method of leveling a line or surface by sighting along the tops of two or more straight edges, or a range of properly spaced poles. See 3d Bone, v. t.

Bonitary (a.) Beneficial, as opposed to statutory or civil; as, bonitary dominion of land.

Bonitoes (pl. ) of Bonito

Bonito (n.) A large tropical fish (Orcynus pelamys) allied to the tunny. It is about three feet long, blue above, with four brown stripes on the sides. It is sometimes found on the American coast.

Bonito (n.) The skipjack (Sarda Mediterranea) of the Atlantic, an important and abundant food fish on the coast of the United States, and (S. Chilensis) of the Pacific, and other related species. They are large and active fishes, of a blue color with black oblique stripes.

Bonito (n.) The medregal (Seriola fasciata), an edible fish of the southern of the United States and the West Indies.

Bonito (n.) The cobia or crab eater (Elacate canada), an edible fish of the Middle and Southern United States.

Bonsmots (pl. ) of Bonmot

Bonmot (n.) A witty repartee; a jest.

Bonne (n.) A female servant charged with the care of a young child.

Bonnes bouches (pl. ) of Bonne bouche

Bonne bouche () A delicious morsel or mouthful; a tidbit.

Bonnet (n.) A headdress for men and boys; a cap.

Bonnet (n.) A soft, elastic, very durable cap, made of thick, seamless woolen stuff, and worn by men in Scotland.

Bonnet (n.) A covering for the head, worn by women, usually protecting more or less the back and sides of the head, but no part of the forehead. The shape of the bonnet varies greatly at different times; formerly the front part projected, and spread outward, like the mouth of a funnel.

Bonnet (n.) Anything resembling a bonnet in shape or use

Bonnet (n.) A small defense work at a salient angle; or a part of a parapet elevated to screen the other part from enfilade fire.

Bonnet (n.) A metallic canopy, or projection, over an opening, as a fireplace, or a cowl or hood to increase the draught of a chimney, etc.

Bonnet (n.) A frame of wire netting over a locomotive chimney, to prevent escape of sparks.

Bonnet (n.) A roofing over the cage of a mine, to protect its occupants from objects falling down the shaft.

Bonnet (n.) In pumps, a metal covering for the openings in the valve chambers.

Bonnet (n.) An additional piece of canvas laced to the foot of a jib or foresail in moderate winds.

Bonnet (n.) The second stomach of a ruminating animal.

Bonnet (n.) An accomplice of a gambler, auctioneer, etc., who entices others to bet or to bid; a decoy.

Bonnet (v. i.) To take off the bonnet or cap as a mark of respect; to uncover.

Bonneted (a.) Wearing a bonnet.

Bonneted (a.) Protected by a bonnet. See Bonnet, 4 (a).

Bonnetless (a.) Without a bonnet.

Bonnibel (n.) A handsome girl.

Bonnie (a.) See Bonny, a.

Bonnilass (n.) A bonny lass; a beautiful girl.

Bonnily (adv.) Gayly; handsomely.

Bonniness (n.) The quality of being bonny; gayety; handsomeness.

Bonny (a.) Handsome; beautiful; pretty; attractively lively and graceful.

Bonny (a.) Gay; merry; frolicsome; cheerful; blithe.

Bonny (n.) A round and compact bed of ore, or a distinct bed, not communicating with a vein.

Bonnyclabber (n.) Coagulated sour milk; loppered milk; curdled milk; -- sometimes called simply clabber.

Bon Silene () A very fragrant tea rose with petals of various shades of pink.

Bonspiel (n.) A cur/ing match between clubs.

Bontebok (n.) The pied antelope of South Africa (Alcelaphus pygarga). Its face and rump are white. Called also nunni.

Bon ton () The height of the fashion; fashionable society.

Bonuses (pl. ) of Bonus

Bonus (n.) A premium given for a loan, or for a charter or other privilege granted to a company; as the bank paid a bonus for its charter.

Bonus (n.) An extra dividend to the shareholders of a joint stock company, out of accumulated profits.

Bonus (n.) Money paid in addition to a stated compensation.

Bons vivants (pl. ) of Bon vivant

Bon vivant (p. pr.) A good fellow; a jovial companion; a free liver.

Bony (a.) Consisting of bone, or of bones; full of bones; pertaining to bones.

Bony (a.) Having large or prominent bones.

Bonze (n.) A Buddhist or Fohist priest, monk, or nun.

Boobies (pl. ) of Booby

Booby (n.) A dunce; a stupid fellow.

Booby (n.) A swimming bird (Sula fiber or S. sula) related to the common gannet, and found in the West Indies, nesting on the bare rocks. It is so called on account of its apparent stupidity. The name is also sometimes applied to other species of gannets; as, S. piscator, the red-footed booby.

Booby (n.) A species of penguin of the antarctic seas.

Booby (a.) Having the characteristics of a booby; stupid.

Boobyish (a.) Stupid; dull.

Boodh (n.) Same as Buddha.

Boodhism (n.) Same as Buddhism.

Boodhist (n.) Same as Buddhist.

Boodle (n.) The whole collection or lot; caboodle.

Boodle (n.) Money given in payment for votes or political influence; bribe money; swag.

Boohooed (imp. & p. p.) of Boohoe

Boohooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boohoe

Boohoe (v. i.) To bawl; to cry loudly.

Boohoo (n.) The sailfish; -- called also woohoo.

Book (n.) A collection of sheets of paper, or similar material, blank, written, or printed, bound together; commonly, many folded and bound sheets containing continuous printing or writing.

Book (n.) A composition, written or printed; a treatise.

Book (n.) A part or subdivision of a treatise or literary work; as, the tenth book of Paradise Lost.

Book (n.) A volume or collection of sheets in which accounts are kept; a register of debts and credits, receipts and expenditures, etc.

Book (n.) Six tricks taken by one side, in the game of whist; in certain other games, two or more corresponding cards, forming a set.

Booked (imp. & p. p.) of Book

Booking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Book

Book (v. t.) To enter, write, or register in a book or list.

Book (v. t.) To enter the name of (any one) in a book for the purpose of securing a passage, conveyance, or seat; as, to be booked for Southampton; to book a seat in a theater.

Book (v. t.) To mark out for; to destine or assign for; as, he is booked for the valedictory.

Bookbinder (n.) One whose occupation is to bind books.

Bookbindery (n.) A bookbinder's shop; a place or establishment for binding books.

Bookbinding (n.) The art, process, or business of binding books.

Bookcase (n.) A case with shelves for holding books, esp. one with glazed doors.

Bookcraft (n.) Authorship; literary skill.

Booked (a.) Registered.

Booked (a.) On the way; destined.

Booker (n.) One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; a bookkeeper.

Bookful (n.) As much as will fill a book; a book full.

Bookful (a.) Filled with book learning.

Bookholder (n.) A prompter at a theater.

Bookholder (n.) A support for a book, holding it open, while one reads or copies from it.

Booking clerk () A clerk who registers passengers, baggage, etc., for conveyance, as by railway or steamship, or who sells passage tickets at a booking office.

Booking office () An office where passengers, baggage, etc., are registered for conveyance, as by railway or steamship.

Booking office () An office where passage tickets are sold.

Bookish (a.) Given to reading; fond of study; better acquainted with books than with men; learned from books.

Bookish (a.) Characterized by a method of expression generally found in books; formal; labored; pedantic; as, a bookish way of talking; bookish sentences.

Bookkeeper (n.) One who keeps accounts; one who has the charge of keeping the books and accounts in an office.

Bookkeeping (n.) The art of recording pecuniary or business transactions in a regular and systematic manner, so as to show their relation to each other, and the state of the business in which they occur; the art of keeping accounts. The books commonly used are a daybook, cashbook, journal, and ledger. See Daybook, Cashbook, Journal, and Ledger.

Bookland (n.) Alt. of Bockland

Bockland (n.) Charter land held by deed under certain rents and free services, which differed in nothing from free socage lands. This species of tenure has given rise to the modern freeholds.

Book-learned (a.) Versed in books; having knowledge derived from books.

Bookless (a.) Without books; unlearned.

Booklet (n.) A little book.

Bookmaker (n.) One who writes and publishes books; especially, one who gathers his materials from other books; a compiler.

Bookmaker (n.) A betting man who makes a book. See To make a book, under Book, n.

Bookmen (pl. ) of Bookman

Bookman (n.) A studious man; a scholar.

Bookmark (n.) Something placed in a book to guide in finding a particular page or passage; also, a label in a book to designate the owner; a bookplate.

Bookmate (n.) A schoolfellow; an associate in study.

Bookmonger (n.) A dealer in books.

Book muslin () A kind of muslin used for the covers of books.

Book muslin () A kind of thin white muslin for ladies' dresses.

Bookplate (n.) A label, placed upon or in a book, showing its ownership or its position in a library.

Bookseller (n.) One who sells books.

Bookselling (n.) The employment of selling books.

Bookshelves (pl. ) of Bookshelf

Bookshelf (n.) A shelf to hold books.

Bookshop (n.) A bookseller's shop.

Bookstall (n.) A stall or stand where books are sold.

Bookstand (n.) A place or stand for the sale of books in the streets; a bookstall.

Bookstand (n.) A stand to hold books for reading or reference.

Bookstore (n.) A store where books are kept for sale; -- called in England a bookseller's shop.

Bookwork (n.) Work done upon a book or books (as in a printing office), in distinction from newspaper or job work.

Bookwork (n.) Study; application to books.

Bookworm (n.) Any larva of a beetle or moth, which is injurious to books. Many species are known.

Bookworm (n.) A student closely attached to books or addicted to study; a reader without appreciation.

Booky (a.) Bookish.

Boolies (pl. ) of Booly

Booly (n.) A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wandering from place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk, like the Tartars; also, a place in the mountain pastures inclosed for the shelter of cattle or their keepers.

Boom (n.) A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending the bottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sail boom, etc.

Boom (n.) A long spar or beam, projecting from the mast of a derrick, from the outer end of which the body to be lifted is suspended.

Boom (n.) A pole with a conspicuous top, set up to mark the channel in a river or harbor.

Boom (n.) A strong chain cable, or line of spars bound together, extended across a river or the mouth of a harbor, to obstruct navigation or passage.

Boom (n.) A line of connected floating timbers stretched across a river, or inclosing an area of water, to keep saw logs, etc., from floating away.

Boom (v. t.) To extend, or push, with a boom or pole; as, to boom out a sail; to boom off a boat.

Boomed (imp. & p. p.) of Boom

Booming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boom

Boom (v. i.) To cry with a hollow note; to make a hollow sound, as the bittern, and some insects.

Boom (v. i.) To make a hollow sound, as of waves or cannon.

Boom (v. i.) To rush with violence and noise, as a ship under a press of sail, before a free wind.

Boom (v. i.) To have a rapid growth in market value or in popular favor; to go on rushingly.

Boom (n.) A hollow roar, as of waves or cannon; also, the hollow cry of the bittern; a booming.

Boom (n.) A strong and extensive advance, with more or less noisy excitement; -- applied colloquially or humorously to market prices, the demand for stocks or commodities and to political chances of aspirants to office; as, a boom in the stock market; a boom in coffee.

Boom (v. t.) To cause to advance rapidly in price; as, to boom railroad or mining shares; to create a boom for; as to boom Mr. C. for senator.

Boomdas (n.) A small African hyracoid mammal (Dendrohyrax arboreus) resembling the daman.

Boomer (n.) One who, or that which, booms.

Boomer (n.) A North American rodent, so named because it is said to make a booming noise. See Sewellel.

Boomer (n.) A large male kangaroo.

Boomer (n.) One who works up a boom.

Boomerang (n.) A very singular missile weapon used by the natives of Australia and in some parts of India. It is usually a curved stick of hard wood, from twenty to thirty inches in length, from two to three inches wide, and half or three quarters of an inch thick. When thrown from the hand with a quick rotary motion, it describes very remarkable curves, according to the shape of the instrument and the manner of throwing it, often moving nearly horizontally a long distance, then curving upward to a considerable height, and finally taking a retrograde direction, so as to fall near the place from which it was thrown, or even far in the rear of it.

Booming (a.) Rushing with violence; swelling with a hollow sound; making a hollow sound or note; roaring; resounding.

Booming (a.) Advancing or increasing amid noisy excitement; as, booming prices; booming popularity.

Booming (n.) The act of producing a hollow or roaring sound; a violent rushing with heavy roar; as, the booming of the sea; a deep, hollow sound; as, the booming of bitterns.

Boomkin (n.) Same as Bumkin.

Boomorah (n.) A small West African chevrotain (Hyaemoschus aquaticus), resembling the musk deer.

Boomslange (n.) A large South African tree snake (Bucephalus Capensis). Although considered venomous by natives, it has no poison fangs.

Boon (n.) A prayer or petition.

Boon (n.) That which is asked or granted as a benefit or favor; a gift; a benefaction; a grant; a present.

Boon (n.) Good; prosperous; as, boon voyage.

Boon (n.) Kind; bountiful; benign.

Boon (n.) Gay; merry; jovial; convivial.

Boon (n.) The woody portion flax, which is separated from the fiber as refuse matter by retting, braking, and scutching.

Boor (n.) A husbandman; a peasant; a rustic; esp. a clownish or unrefined countryman.

Boor (n.) A Dutch, German, or Russian peasant; esp. a Dutch colonist in South Africa, Guiana, etc.: a boer.

Boor (n.) A rude ill-bred person; one who is clownish in manners.

Boorish (a.) Like a boor; clownish; uncultured; unmannerly.

Boort (n.) See Bort.

Boose (n.) A stall or a crib for an ox, cow, or other animal.

Boose (v. i.) To drink excessively. See Booze.

Booser (n.) A toper; a guzzler. See Boozer.

Boosted (imp. & p. p.) of Boost

Boosting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boost

Boost (v. i.) To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb); to push up; hence, to assist in overcoming obstacles, or in making advancement.

Boost (n.) A push from behind, as to one who is endeavoring to climb; help.

Boot (n.) Remedy; relief; amends; reparation; hence, one who brings relief.

Boot (n.) That which is given to make an exchange equal, or to make up for the deficiency of value in one of the things exchanged.

Boot (n.) Profit; gain; advantage; use.

Booted (imp. & p. p.) of Boot

Booting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boot

Boot (v. t.) To profit; to advantage; to avail; -- generally followed by it; as, what boots it?

Boot (v. t.) To enrich; to benefit; to give in addition.

Boot (n.) A covering for the foot and lower part of the leg, ordinarily made of leather.

Boot (n.) An instrument of torture for the leg, formerly used to extort confessions, particularly in Scotland.

Boot (n.) A place at the side of a coach, where attendants rode; also, a low outside place before and behind the body of the coach.

Boot (n.) A place for baggage at either end of an old-fashioned stagecoach.

Boot (n.) An apron or cover (of leather or rubber cloth) for the driving seat of a vehicle, to protect from rain and mud.

Boot (n.) The metal casing and flange fitted about a pipe where it passes through a roof.

Booted (imp. & p. p.) of Boot

Booting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boot

Boot (v. t.) To put boots on, esp. for riding.

Boot (v. t.) To punish by kicking with a booted foot.

Boot (v. i.) To boot one's self; to put on one's boots.

Boot (n.) Booty; spoil.

Bootblack (n.) One who blacks boots.

Booted (a.) Wearing boots, especially boots with long tops, as for riding; as, a booted squire.

Booted (a.) Having an undivided, horny, bootlike covering; -- said of the tarsus of some birds.

Bootee (n.) A half boot or short boot.

Bootes (n.) A northern constellation, containing the bright star Arcturus.

Booth (n.) A house or shed built of boards, boughs, or other slight materials, for temporary occupation.

Booth (n.) A covered stall or temporary structure in a fair or market, or at a polling place.

Boothale (v. t. & i.) To forage for booty; to plunder.

Boothose (n.) Stocking hose, or spatterdashes, in lieu of boots.

Boothose (n.) Hose made to be worn with boots, as by travelers on horseback.

Boothy (n.) See Bothy.

Bootikin (n.) A little boot, legging, or gaiter.

Bootikin (n.) A covering for the foot or hand, worn as a cure for the gout.

Booting (n.) Advantage; gain; gain by plunder; booty.

Booting (n.) A kind of torture. See Boot, n., 2.

Booting (n.) A kicking, as with a booted foot.

Bootjack (n.) A device for pulling off boots.

Bootless (a.) Unavailing; unprofitable; useless; without advantage or success.

Bootlick (n.) A toady.

Bootmaker (n.) One who makes boots.

Boots (n.) A servant at a hotel or elsewhere, who cleans and blacks the boots and shoes.

Boottopping (n.) The act or process of daubing a vessel's bottom near the surface of the water with a mixture of tallow, sulphur, and resin, as a temporary protection against worms, after the slime, shells, etc., have been scraped off.

Boottopping (n.) Sheathing a vessel with planking over felt.

Boottree (n.) An instrument to stretch and widen the leg of a boot, consisting of two pieces, together shaped like a leg, between which, when put into the boot, a wedge is driven.

Booty (n.) That which is seized by violence or obtained by robbery, especially collective spoil taken in war; plunder; pillage.

Boozed (imp. & p. p.) of Booze

Boozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Booze

Booze (v. i.) To drink greedily or immoderately, esp. alcoholic liquor; to tipple.

Booze (n.) A carouse; a drinking.

Boozer (n.) One who boozes; a toper; a guzzler of alcoholic liquors; a bouser.

Boozy (a.) A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy.

Bopeep (n.) The act of looking out suddenly, as from behind a screen, so as to startle some one (as by children in play), or of looking out and drawing suddenly back, as if frightened.

Borable (a.) Capable of being bored.

Borachte (n.) A large leather bottle for liquors, etc., made of the skin of a goat or other animal. Hence: A drunkard.

Boracic (a.) Pertaining to, or produced from, borax; containing boron; boric; as, boracic acid.

Boracite (n.) A mineral of a white or gray color occurring massive and in isometric crystals; in composition it is a magnesium borate with magnesium chloride.

Boracous (a.) Relating to, or obtained from, borax; containing borax.

Borage (n.) A mucilaginous plant of the genus Borago (B. officinalis), which is used, esp. in France, as a demulcent and diaphoretic.

Boragewort (n.) Plant of the Borage family.

Boraginaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants (Boraginaceae) which includes the borage, heliotrope, beggar's lice, and many pestiferous plants.

Boragineous (a.) Relating to the Borage tribe; boraginaceous.

Boramez (n.) See Barometz.

Borate (n.) A salt formed by the combination of boric acid with a base or positive radical.

Borax (n.) A white or gray crystalline salt, with a slight alkaline taste, used as a flux, in soldering metals, making enamels, fixing colors on porcelain, and as a soap. It occurs native in certain mineral springs, and is made from the boric acid of hot springs in Tuscany. It was originally obtained from a lake in Thibet, and was sent to Europe under the name of tincal. Borax is a pyroborate or tetraborate of sodium, Na2B4O7.10H2O.

Borborygm (n.) A rumbling or gurgling noise produced by wind in the bowels.

Bord (n.) A board; a table.

Bord (n.) The face of coal parallel to the natural fissures.

Bord (n.) See Bourd.

Bordage (n.) The base or servile tenure by which a bordar held his cottage.

Bordar (n.) A villein who rendered menial service for his cottage; a cottier.

Bordeaux (a.) Pertaining to Bordeaux in the south of France.

Bordeaux (n.) A claret wine from Bordeaux.

Bordel (n.) Alt. of Bordello

Bordello (n.) A brothel; a bawdyhouse; a house devoted to prostitution.

Bordelais (a.) Of or pertaining to Bordeaux, in France, or to the district around Bordeaux.

Bordeller (n.) A keeper or a frequenter of a brothel.

Border (n.) The outer part or edge of anything, as of a garment, a garden, etc.; margin; verge; brink.

Border (n.) A boundary; a frontier of a state or of the settled part of a country; a frontier district.

Border (n.) A strip or stripe arranged along or near the edge of something, as an ornament or finish.

Border (n.) A narrow flower bed.

Bordered (imp. & p. p.) of Border

Bordering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Border

Border (v. i.) To touch at the edge or boundary; to be contiguous or adjacent; -- with on or upon as, Connecticut borders on Massachusetts.

Border (v. i.) To approach; to come near to; to verge.

Border (v. t.) To make a border for; to furnish with a border, as for ornament; as, to border a garment or a garden.

Border (v. t.) To be, or to have, contiguous to; to touch, or be touched, as by a border; to be, or to have, near the limits or boundary; as, the region borders a forest, or is bordered on the north by a forest.

Border (v. t.) To confine within bounds; to limit.

Borderer (n.) One who dwells on a border, or at the extreme part or confines of a country, region, or tract of land; one who dwells near to a place or region.

Bordland (n.) Either land held by a bordar, or the land which a lord kept for the maintenance of his board, or table.

Bordlode (n.) The service formerly required of a tenant, to carry timber from the woods to the lord's house.

Bordman (n.) A bordar; a tenant in bordage.

Bordrag (n.) Alt. of Bordraging

Bordraging (n.) An incursion upon the borders of a country; a raid.

Bord service () Service due from a bordar; bordage.

Bordure (n.) A border one fifth the width of the shield, surrounding the field. It is usually plain, but may be charged.

Bored (imp. & p. p.) of Bore

Boring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bore

Bore (v. t.) To perforate or penetrate, as a solid body, by turning an auger, gimlet, drill, or other instrument; to make a round hole in or through; to pierce; as, to bore a plank.

Bore (v. t.) To form or enlarge by means of a boring instrument or apparatus; as, to bore a steam cylinder or a gun barrel; to bore a hole.

Bore (v. t.) To make (a passage) by laborious effort, as in boring; as, to bore one's way through a crowd; to force a narrow and difficult passage through.

Bore (v. t.) To weary by tedious iteration or by dullness; to tire; to trouble; to vex; to annoy; to pester.

Bore (v. t.) To befool; to trick.

Bore (v. i.) To make a hole or perforation with, or as with, a boring instrument; to cut a circular hole by the rotary motion of a tool; as, to bore for water or oil (i. e., to sink a well by boring for water or oil); to bore with a gimlet; to bore into a tree (as insects).

Bore (v. i.) To be pierced or penetrated by an instrument that cuts as it turns; as, this timber does not bore well, or is hard to bore.

Bore (v. i.) To push forward in a certain direction with laborious effort.

Bore (v. i.) To shoot out the nose or toss it in the air; -- said of a horse.

Bore (n.) A hole made by boring; a perforation.

Bore (n.) The internal cylindrical cavity of a gun, cannon, pistol, or other firearm, or of a pipe or tube.

Bore (n.) The size of a hole; the interior diameter of a tube or gun barrel; the caliber.

Bore (n.) A tool for making a hole by boring, as an auger.

Bore (n.) Caliber; importance.

Bore (n.) A person or thing that wearies by prolixity or dullness; a tiresome person or affair; any person or thing which causes ennui.

Bore (n.) A tidal flood which regularly or occasionally rushes into certain rivers of peculiar configuration or location, in one or more waves which present a very abrupt front of considerable height, dangerous to shipping, as at the mouth of the Amazon, in South America, the Hoogly and Indus, in India, and the Tsien-tang, in China.

Bore (n.) Less properly, a very high and rapid tidal flow, when not so abrupt, such as occurs at the Bay of Fundy and in the British Channel.

Bore () imp. of 1st & 2d Bear.

Boreal (a.) Northern; pertaining to the north, or to the north wind; as, a boreal bird; a boreal blast.

Boreas (n.) The north wind; -- usually a personification.

Borecole (n.) A brassicaceous plant of many varieties, cultivated for its leaves, which are not formed into a compact head like the cabbage, but are loose, and are generally curled or wrinkled; kale.

Boredom (n.) The state of being bored, or pestered; a state of ennui.

Boredom (n.) The realm of bores; bores, collectively.

Boree (n.) Same as BourrEe.

Borel (n.) See Borrel.

Borele (n.) The smaller two-horned rhinoceros of South Africa (Atelodus bicornis).

Borer (n.) One that bores; an instrument for boring.

Borer (n.) A marine, bivalve mollusk, of the genus Teredo and allies, which burrows in wood. See Teredo.

Borer (n.) Any bivalve mollusk (Saxicava, Lithodomus, etc.) which bores into limestone and similar substances.

Borer (n.) One of the larvae of many species of insects, which penetrate trees, as the apple, peach, pine, etc. See Apple borer, under Apple.

Borer (n.) The hagfish (Myxine).

Boric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, boron.

Boride (n.) A binary compound of boron with a more positive or basic element or radical; -- formerly called boruret.

Boring (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, bores; as, the boring of cannon; the boring of piles and ship timbers by certain marine mollusks.

Boring (n.) A hole made by boring.

Boring (n.) The chips or fragments made by boring.

Born (v. t.) Brought forth, as an animal; brought into life; introduced by birth.

Born (v. t.) Having from birth a certain character; by or from birth; by nature; innate; as, a born liar.

Borne (p. p.) Carried; conveyed; supported; defrayed. See Bear, v. t.

Borneol (n.) A rare variety of camphor, C10H17.OH, resembling ordinary camphor, from which it can be produced by reduction. It is said to occur in the camphor tree of Borneo and Sumatra (Dryobalanops camphora), but the natural borneol is rarely found in European or American commerce, being in great request by the Chinese. Called also Borneo camphor, Malay camphor, and camphol.

Bornite (n.) A valuable ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur; -- also called purple copper ore (or erubescite), in allusion to the colors shown upon the slightly tarnished surface.

Borofluoride (n.) A double fluoride of boron and hydrogen, or some other positive element, or radical; -- called also fluoboride, and formerly fluoborate.

Boroglyceride (n.) A compound of boric acid and glycerin, used as an antiseptic.

Boron (n.) A nonmetallic element occurring abundantly in borax. It is reduced with difficulty to the free state, when it can be obtained in several different forms; viz., as a substance of a deep olive color, in a semimetallic form, and in colorless quadratic crystals similar to the diamond in hardness and other properties. It occurs in nature also in boracite, datolite, tourmaline, and some other minerals. Atomic weight 10.9. Symbol B.

Borosilicate (n.) A double salt of boric and silicic acids, as in the natural minerals tourmaline, datolite, etc.

Borough (n.) In England, an incorporated town that is not a city; also, a town that sends members to parliament; in Scotland, a body corporate, consisting of the inhabitants of a certain district, erected by the sovereign, with a certain jurisdiction; in America, an incorporated town or village, as in Pennsylvania and Connecticut.

Borough (n.) The collective body of citizens or inhabitants of a borough; as, the borough voted to lay a tax.

Borough (n.) An association of men who gave pledges or sureties to the king for the good behavior of each other.

Borough (n.) The pledge or surety thus given.

Borough-English (n.) A custom, as in some ancient boroughs, by which lands and tenements descend to the youngest son, instead of the eldest; or, if the owner have no issue, to the youngest brother.

Boroughhead (n.) See Headborough.

Boroughholder (n.) A headborough; a borsholder.

Boroughmaster (n.) The mayor, governor, or bailiff of a borough.

Boroughmonger (n.) One who buys or sells the parliamentary seats of boroughs.

Boroughmongering (n.) Alt. of Boroughmongery

Boroughmongery (n.) The practices of a boroughmonger.

Borracho (n.) See Borachio.

Borrage (a.) Alt. of Borraginaceous

Borraginaceous (a.) See Borage, n., etc.

Borrel (n.) Coarse woolen cloth; hence, coarse clothing; a garment.

Borrel (n.) A kind of light stuff, of silk and wool.

Borrel (n.) Ignorant, unlearned; belonging to the laity.

Borrowed (imp. & p. p.) of Borrow

Borrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Borrow

Borrow (v. t.) To receive from another as a loan, with the implied or expressed intention of returning the identical article or its equivalent in kind; -- the opposite of lend.

Borrow (v. t.) To take (one or more) from the next higher denomination in order to add it to the next lower; -- a term of subtraction when the figure of the subtrahend is larger than the corresponding one of the minuend.

Borrow (v. t.) To copy or imitate; to adopt; as, to borrow the style, manner, or opinions of another.

Borrow (v. t.) To feign or counterfeit.

Borrow (v. t.) To receive; to take; to derive.

Borrow (n.) Something deposited as security; a pledge; a surety; a hostage.

Borrow (n.) The act of borrowing.

Borrower (n.) One who borrows.

Borsholder (a.) The head or chief of a tithing, or borough (see 2d Borough); the headborough; a parish constable.

Bort (n.) Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments made in cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used in lapidary work.

Boruret (n.) A boride.

Borwe (n.) Pledge; borrow.

Bos (n.) A genus of ruminant quadrupeds, including the wild and domestic cattle, distinguished by a stout body, hollow horns, and a large fold of skin hanging from the neck.

Bosa (n.) A drink, used in the East. See Boza.

Boscage (n.) A growth of trees or shrubs; underwood; a thicket; thick foliage; a wooded landscape.

Boscage (n.) Food or sustenance for cattle, obtained from bushes and trees; also, a tax on wood.

Bosh (n.) Figure; outline; show.

Bosh (n.) Empty talk; contemptible nonsense; trash; humbug.

Boshes (pl. ) of Bosh

Bosh (n.) One of the sloping sides of the lower part of a blast furnace; also, one of the hollow iron or brick sides of the bed of a puddling or boiling furnace.

Bosh (n.) The lower part of a blast furnace, which slopes inward, or the widest space at the top of this part.

Bosh (n.) In forging and smelting, a trough in which tools and ingots are cooled.

Boshbok (n.) A kind of antelope. See Bush buck.

Boshvark (n.) The bush hog. See under Bush, a thicket.

Bosjesman (n.) See Bushman.

Bosk (n.) A thicket; a small wood.

Boskage (n.) Same as Boscage.

Bosket (n.) Alt. of Bosquet

Bosquet (n.) A grove; a thicket; shrubbery; an inclosure formed by branches of trees, regularly or irregularly disposed.

Boskiness (n.) Boscage; also, the state or quality of being bosky.

Bosky (a.) Woody or bushy; covered with boscage or thickets.

Bosky (a.) Caused by boscage.

Bosom (n.) The breast of a human being; the part, between the arms, to which anything is pressed when embraced by them.

Bosom (n.) The breast, considered as the seat of the passions, affections, and operations of the mind; consciousness; secret thoughts.

Bosom (n.) Embrace; loving or affectionate inclosure; fold.

Bosom (n.) Any thing or place resembling the breast; a supporting surface; an inner recess; the interior; as, the bosom of the earth.

Bosom (n.) The part of the dress worn upon the breast; an article, or a portion of an article, of dress to be worn upon the breast; as, the bosom of a shirt; a linen bosom.

Bosom (n.) Inclination; desire.

Bosom (n.) A depression round the eye of a millstone.

Bosom (a.) Of or pertaining to the bosom.

Bosom (a.) Intimate; confidential; familiar; trusted; cherished; beloved; as, a bosom friend.

Bosomed (imp. & p. p.) of Bosom

Bosoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bosom

Bosom (v. t.) To inclose or carry in the bosom; to keep with care; to take to heart; to cherish.

Bosom (v. t.) To conceal; to hide from view; to embosom.

Bosomed (a.) Having, or resembling, bosom; kept in the bosom; hidden.

Bosomy (a.) Characterized by recesses or sheltered hollows.

Boson (n.) See Boatswain.

Bosporian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Thracian or the Cimmerian Bosporus.

Bosporus (n.) A strait or narrow sea between two seas, or a lake and a seas; as, the Bosporus (formerly the Thracian Bosporus) or Strait of Constantinople, between the Black Sea and Sea of Marmora; the Cimmerian Bosporus, between the Black Sea and Sea of Azof.

Bosquet (n.) See Bosket.

Bosses (pl. ) of Boss

Boss (n.) Any protuberant part; a round, swelling part or body; a knoblike process; as, a boss of wood.

Boss (n.) A protuberant ornament on any work, either of different material from that of the work or of the same, as upon a buckler or bridle; a stud; a knob; the central projection of a shield. See Umbilicus.

Boss (n.) A projecting ornament placed at the intersection of the ribs of ceilings, whether vaulted or flat, and in other situations.

Boss (n.) A wooden vessel for the mortar used in tiling or masonry, hung by a hook from the laths, or from the rounds of a ladder.

Boss (n.) The enlarged part of a shaft, on which a wheel is keyed, or at the end, where it is coupled to another.

Boss (n.) A swage or die used for shaping metals.

Boss (n.) A head or reservoir of water.

Bossed (imp. & p. p.) of Boss

Bossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boss

Boss (v. t.) To ornament with bosses; to stud.

Boss (n.) A master workman or superintendent; a director or manager; a political dictator.

Bossage (n.) A stone in a building, left rough and projecting, to be afterward carved into shape.

Bossage (n.) Rustic work, consisting of stones which seem to advance beyond the level of the building, by reason of indentures or channels left in the joinings.

Bossed (a.) Embossed; also, bossy.

Bosset (n.) A rudimental antler of a young male of the red deer.

Bossism (n.) The rule or practices of bosses, esp. political bosses.

Bossy (a.) Ornamented with bosses; studded.

Bossy (n.) A cow or calf; -- familiarly so called.

Boston (n.) A game at cards, played by four persons, with two packs of fifty-two cards each; -- said to be so called from Boston, Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of the French army in America during the Revolutionary war.

Boswellian (a.) Relating to, or characteristic of, Boswell, the biographer of Dr. Johnson.

Boswellism (n.) The style of Boswell.

Bot (n.) See Bots.

Botanic (a.) Alt. of Botanical

Botanical (a.) Of or pertaining to botany; relating to the study of plants; as, a botanical system, arrangement, textbook, expedition.

Botanist (n.) One skilled in botany; one versed in the knowledge of plants.

Botanized (imp. & p. p.) of Botanize

Botanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Botanize

Botanize (v. i.) To seek after plants for botanical investigation; to study plants.

Botanize (v. t.) To explore for botanical purposes.

Botanizer (n.) One who botanizes.

Botanologer (n.) A botanist.

Botanology (n.) The science of botany.

Botanomancy (n.) An ancient species of divination by means of plants, esp. sage and fig leaves.

Botanies (pl. ) of Botany

Botany (a. & n.) The science which treats of the structure of plants, the functions of their parts, their places of growth, their classification, and the terms which are employed in their description and denomination. See Plant.

Botany (a. & n.) A book which treats of the science of botany.

Botany Bay () A harbor on the east coast of Australia, and an English convict settlement there; -- so called from the number of new plants found on its shore at its discovery by Cook in 1770.

Botargo (n.) A sort of cake or sausage, made of the salted roes of the mullet, much used on the coast of the Mediterranean as an incentive to drink.

Botches (pl. ) of Botch

Botch (n.) A swelling on the skin; a large ulcerous affection; a boil; an eruptive disease.

Botch (n.) A patch put on, or a part of a garment patched or mended in a clumsy manner.

Botch (n.) Work done in a bungling manner; a clumsy performance; a piece of work, or a place in work, marred in the doing, or not properly finished; a bungle.

Botched (imp. & p. p.) of Botch

Botching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Botch

Botch (n.) To mark with, or as with, botches.

Botch (n.) To repair; to mend; esp. to patch in a clumsy or imperfect manner, as a garment; -- sometimes with up.

Botch (n.) To put together unsuitably or unskillfully; to express or perform in a bungling manner; to spoil or mar, as by unskillful work.

Botchedly (adv.) In a clumsy manner.

Botcher (n.) One who mends or patches, esp. a tailor or cobbler.

Botcher (n.) A clumsy or careless workman; a bungler.

Botcher (n.) A young salmon; a grilse.

Botcherly (a.) Bungling; awkward.

Botchery (n.) A botching, or that which is done by botching; clumsy or careless workmanship.

Botchy (a.) Marked with botches; full of botches; poorly done.

Bote (n.) Compensation; amends; satisfaction; expiation; as, man bote, a compensation or a man slain.

Bote (n.) Payment of any kind.

Bote (n.) A privilege or allowance of necessaries.

Boteless (a.) Unavailing; in vain. See Bootless.

Botfly (n.) A dipterous insect of the family (Estridae, of many different species, some of which are particularly troublesome to domestic animals, as the horse, ox, and sheep, on which they deposit their eggs. A common species is one of the botflies of the horse (Gastrophilus equi), the larvae of which (bots) are taken into the stomach of the animal, where they live several months and pass through their larval states. In tropical America one species sometimes lives under the human skin, and another in the stomach. See Gadfly.

Both (a. or pron.) The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either.

Both (conj.) As well; not only; equally.

Bothered (imp. & p. p.) of Bother

Bothering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bother

Bother (v. t.) To annoy; to trouble; to worry; to perplex. See Pother.

Bother (v. i.) To feel care or anxiety; to make or take trouble; to be troublesome.

Bother (n.) One who, or that which, bothers; state of perplexity or annoyance; embarrassment; worry; disturbance; petty trouble; as, to be in a bother.

Botheration (n.) The act of bothering, or state of being bothered; cause of trouble; perplexity; annoyance; vexation.

Botherer (n.) One who bothers.

Bothersome (a.) Vexatious; causing bother; causing trouble or perplexity; troublesome.

Both-hands (n.) A factotum.

Bothie (n.) Same as Bothy.

Bothnian (a.) Alt. of Bothnic

Bothnic (a.) Of or pertaining to Bothnia, a country of northern Europe, or to a gulf of the same name which forms the northern part of the Baltic sea.

Bothrenchyma (n.) Dotted or pitted ducts or vessels forming the pores seen in many kinds of wood.

-ies (pl. ) of Boothy

Bothy (n.) Alt. of Boothy

Boothy (n.) A wooden hut or humble cot, esp. a rude hut or barrack for unmarried farm servants; a shepherd's or hunter's hut; a booth.

Botocudos (n. pl.) A Brazilian tribe of Indians, noted for their use of poisons; -- also called Aymbores.

Bo tree () The peepul tree; esp., the very ancient tree standing at Anurajahpoora in Ceylon, grown from a slip of the tree under which Gautama is said to have received the heavenly light and so to have become Buddha.

Botryogen (n.) A hydrous sulphate of iron of a deep red color. It often occurs in botryoidal form.

Botryoid (a.) Alt. of Botryoidal

Botryoidal (a.) Having the form of a bunch of grapes; like a cluster of grapes, as a mineral presenting an aggregation of small spherical or spheroidal prominences.

Botryolite (n.) A variety of datolite, usually having a botryoidal structure.

Botryose (a.) Having the form of a cluster of grapes.

Botryose (a.) Of the racemose or acropetal type of inflorescence.

Bots (n. pl.) The larvae of several species of botfly, especially those larvae which infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and are supposed to be the cause of various ailments.

Bottine (n.) A small boot; a lady's boot.

Bottine (n.) An appliance resembling a small boot furnished with straps, buckles, etc., used to correct or prevent distortions in the lower extremities of children.

Bottle (n.) A hollow vessel, usually of glass or earthenware (but formerly of leather), with a narrow neck or mouth, for holding liquids.

Bottle (n.) The contents of a bottle; as much as a bottle contains; as, to drink a bottle of wine.

Bottle (n.) Fig.: Intoxicating liquor; as, to drown one's reason in the bottle.

Bottled (imp. & p. p.) of Bottle

Bottling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bottle

Bottle (v. t.) To put into bottles; to inclose in, or as in, a bottle or bottles; to keep or restrain as in a bottle; as, to bottle wine or porter; to bottle up one's wrath.

Bottle (n.) A bundle, esp. of hay.

Bottled (a.) Put into bottles; inclosed in bottles; pent up in, or as in, a bottle.

Bottled (a.) Having the shape of a bottle; protuberant.

Bottle green () A dark shade of green, like that of bottle glass.

Bottlehead (n.) A cetacean allied to the grampus; -- called also bottle-nosed whale.

Bottleholder (n.) One who attends a pugilist in a prize fight; -- so called from the bottle of water of which he has charge.

Bottleholder (n.) One who assists or supports another in a contest; an abettor; a backer.

Bottle-nose (n.) A cetacean of the Dolphin family, of several species, as Delphinus Tursio and Lagenorhyncus leucopleurus, of Europe.

Bottle-nose (n.) The puffin.

Bottle-nosed (a.) Having the nose bottle-shaped, or large at the end.

Bottler (n.) One who bottles wine, beer, soda water, etc.

Bottlescrew (n.) A corkscrew.

Bottling (n.) The act or the process of putting anything into bottles (as beer, mineral water, etc.) and corking the bottles.

Bottom (n.) The lowest part of anything; the foot; as, the bottom of a tree or well; the bottom of a hill, a lane, or a page.

Bottom (n.) The part of anything which is beneath the contents and supports them, as the part of a chair on which a person sits, the circular base or lower head of a cask or tub, or the plank floor of a ship's hold; the under surface.

Bottom (n.) That upon which anything rests or is founded, in a literal or a figurative sense; foundation; groundwork.

Bottom (n.) The bed of a body of water, as of a river, lake, sea.

Bottom (n.) The fundament; the buttocks.

Bottom (n.) An abyss.

Bottom (n.) Low land formed by alluvial deposits along a river; low-lying ground; a dale; a valley.

Bottom (n.) The part of a ship which is ordinarily under water; hence, the vessel itself; a ship.

Bottom (n.) Power of endurance; as, a horse of a good bottom.

Bottom (n.) Dregs or grounds; lees; sediment.

Bottom (a.) Of or pertaining to the bottom; fundamental; lowest; under; as, bottom rock; the bottom board of a wagon box; bottom prices.

Bottomed (imp. & p. p.) of Bottom

Bottoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bottom

Bottom (v. t.) To found or build upon; to fix upon as a support; -- followed by on or upon.

Bottom (v. t.) To furnish with a bottom; as, to bottom a chair.

Bottom (v. t.) To reach or get to the bottom of.

Bottom (v. i.) To rest, as upon an ultimate support; to be based or grounded; -- usually with on or upon.

Bottom (v. i.) To reach or impinge against the bottom, so as to impede free action, as when the point of a cog strikes the bottom of a space between two other cogs, or a piston the end of a cylinder.

Bottom (n.) A ball or skein of thread; a cocoon.

Bottom (v. t.) To wind round something, as in making a ball of thread.

Bottomed (a.) Having at the bottom, or as a bottom; resting upon a bottom; grounded; -- mostly, in composition; as, sharp-bottomed; well-bottomed.

Bottomless (a.) Without a bottom; hence, fathomless; baseless; as, a bottomless abyss.

Bottomry (n.) A contract in the nature of a mortgage, by which the owner of a ship, or the master as his agent, hypothecates and binds the ship (and sometimes the accruing freight) as security for the repayment of money advanced or lent for the use of the ship, if she terminates her voyage successfully. If the ship is lost by perils of the sea, the lender loses the money; but if the ship arrives safe, he is to receive the money lent, with the interest or premium stipulated, although it may, and usually does, exceed the legal rate of interest. See Hypothecation.

Bottony (a.) Alt. of Bottone

Bottone (a.) Having a bud or button, or a kind of trefoil, at the end; furnished with knobs or buttons.

Botts (n. pl.) See Bots.

Botuliform (a.) Having the shape of a sausage.

Bouche (n.) Same as Bush, a lining.

Bouche (v. t.) Same as Bush, to line.

Bouche (n.) Alt. of Bouch

Bouch (n.) A mouth.

Bouch (n.) An allowance of meat and drink for the tables of inferior officers or servants in a nobleman's palace or at court.

Bouchees (n. pl.) Small patties.

Boud (n.) A weevil; a worm that breeds in malt, biscuit, etc.

Boudoir (n.) A small room, esp. if pleasant, or elegantly furnished, to which a lady may retire to be alone, or to receive intimate friends; a lady's (or sometimes a gentleman's) private room.

Bouffe (n.) Comic opera. See Opera Bouffe.

Bougainvillaea (n.) A genus of plants of the order Nyctoginaceae, from tropical South America, having the flowers surrounded by large bracts.

Bouged (imp. & p. p.) of Bouge

Bouge (v. i.) To swell out.

Bouge (v. i.) To bilge.

Bouge (v. t.) To stave in; to bilge.

Bouge (n.) Bouche (see Bouche, 2); food and drink; provisions.

Bouget (n.) A charge representing a leather vessel for carrying water; -- also called water bouget.

Bough (n.) An arm or branch of a tree, esp. a large arm or main branch.

Bough (n.) A gallows.

Bought (n.) A flexure; a bend; a twist; a turn; a coil, as in a rope; as the boughts of a serpent.

Bought (n.) The part of a sling that contains the stone.

Bought () imp. & p. p. of Buy.

Bought (p. a.) Purchased; bribed.

Boughten (a.) Purchased; not obtained or produced at home.

Boughty (a.) Bending.

Bougie (n.) A long, flexible instrument, that is

Bougie (n.) A long slender rod consisting of gelatin or some other substance that melts at the temperature of the body. It is impregnated with medicine, and designed for introduction into urethra, etc.

Bouilli (n.) Boiled or stewed meat; beef boiled with vegetables in water from which its gravy is to be made; beef from which bouillon or soup has been made.

Bouillon (n.) A nutritious liquid food made by boiling beef, or other meat, in water; a clear soup or broth.

Bouillon (n.) An excrescence on a horse's frush or frog.

Bouk (n.) The body.

Bouk (n.) Bulk; volume.

Boul (n.) A curved handle.

Boulangerite (n.) A mineral of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, usually in plumose masses, also compact. It is a sulphide of antimony and lead.

Boulder (n.) Same as Bowlder.

Bouldery (a.) Characterized by bowlders.

Boule (n.) Alt. of Boulework

Boulework (n.) Same as Buhl, Buhlwork.

Boulevard (n.) Originally, a bulwark or rampart of fortification or fortified town.

Boulevard (n.) A public walk or street occupying the site of demolished fortifications. Hence: A broad avenue in or around a city.

Bouleversement (n.) Complete overthrow; disorder; a turning upside down.

Buolt (n.) Corrupted form Bolt.

Boultel (n.) Alt. of Boultin

Boultin (n.) A molding, the convexity of which is one fourth of a circle, being a member just below the abacus in the Tuscan and Roman Doric capital; a torus; an ovolo.

Boultin (n.) One of the shafts of a clustered column.

Boulter (n.) A long, stout fishing line to which many hooks are attached.

Boun (a.) Ready; prepared; destined; tending.

Boun (v. t.) To make or get ready.

Bounced (imp. & p. p.) of Bounce

Bouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bounce

Bounce (v. i.) To strike or thump, so as to rebound, or to make a sudden noise; a knock loudly.

Bounce (v. i.) To leap or spring suddenly or unceremoniously; to bound; as, she bounced into the room.

Bounce (v. i.) To boast; to talk big; to bluster.

Bounce (v. t.) To drive against anything suddenly and violently; to bump; to thump.

Bounce (v. t.) To cause to bound or rebound; sometimes, to toss.

Bounce (v. t.) To eject violently, as from a room; to discharge unceremoniously, as from employment.

Bounce (v. t.) To bully; to scold.

Bounce (n.) A sudden leap or bound; a rebound.

Bounce (n.) A heavy, sudden, and often noisy, blow or thump.

Bounce (n.) An explosion, or the noise of one.

Bounce (n.) Bluster; brag; untruthful boasting; audacious exaggeration; an impudent lie; a bouncer.

Bounce (n.) A dogfish of Europe (Scyllium catulus).

Bounce (adv.) With a sudden leap; suddenly.

Bouncer (n.) One who bounces; a large, heavy person who makes much noise in moving.

Bouncer (n.) A boaster; a bully.

Bouncer (n.) A bold lie; also, a liar.

Bouncer (n.) Something big; a good stout example of the kind.

Bouncing (a.) Stout; plump and healthy; lusty; buxom.

Bouncing (a.) Excessive; big.

Bouncingly (adv.) With a bounce.

Bound (n.) The external or limiting line, either real or imaginary, of any object or space; that which limits or restrains, or within which something is limited or restrained; limit; confine; extent; boundary.

Bounded (imp. & p. p.) of Bound

Bounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bound

Bound (v. t.) To limit; to terminate; to fix the furthest point of extension of; -- said of natural or of moral objects; to lie along, or form, a boundary of; to inclose; to circumscribe; to restrain; to confine.

Bound (v. t.) To name the boundaries of; as, to bound France.

Bound (v. i.) To move with a sudden spring or leap, or with a succession of springs or leaps; as the beast bounded from his den; the herd bounded across the plain.

Bound (v. i.) To rebound, as an elastic ball.

Bound (v. t.) To make to bound or leap; as, to bound a horse.

Bound (v. t.) To cause to rebound; to throw so that it will rebound; as, to bound a ball on the floor.

Bound (n.) A leap; an elastic spring; a jump.

Bound (n.) Rebound; as, the bound of a ball.

Bound (n.) Spring from one foot to the other.

Bound () imp. & p. p. of Bind.

Bound (p. p. & a.) Restrained by a hand, rope, chain, fetters, or the like.

Bound (p. p. & a.) Inclosed in a binding or cover; as, a bound volume.

Bound (p. p. & a.) Under legal or moral restraint or obligation.

Bound (p. p. & a.) Constrained or compelled; destined; certain; -- followed by the infinitive; as, he is bound to succeed; he is bound to fail.

Bound (p. p. & a.) Resolved; as, I am bound to do it.

Bound (p. p. & a.) Constipated; costive.

Bound (v.) Ready or intending to go; on the way toward; going; -- with to or for, or with an adverb of motion; as, a ship is bound to Cadiz, or for Cadiz.

Boundaries (pl. ) of Boundary

Boundary (n.) That which indicates or fixes a limit or extent, or marks a bound, as of a territory; a bounding or separating line; a real or imaginary limit.

Bounden (p. p & a.) Bound; fastened by bonds.

Bounden (p. p & a.) Under obligation; bound by some favor rendered; obliged; beholden.

Bounden (p. p & a.) Made obligatory; imposed as a duty; binding.

Bounder (n.) One who, or that which, limits; a boundary.

Bounding (a.) Moving with a bound or bounds.

Boundless (a.) Without bounds or confines; illimitable; vast; unlimited.

Bounteous (a.) Liberal in charity; disposed to give freely; generously liberal; munificent; beneficent; free in bestowing gifts; as, bounteous production.

Bountiful (a.) Free in giving; liberal in bestowing gifts and favors.

Bountiful (a.) Plentiful; abundant; as, a bountiful supply of food.

Bountihead (n.) Alt. of Bountyhood

Bountyhood (n.) Goodness; generosity.

Bounties (pl. ) of Bounty

Bounty (n.) Goodness, kindness; virtue; worth.

Bounty (n.) Liberality in bestowing gifts or favors; gracious or liberal giving; generosity; munificence.

Bounty (n.) That which is given generously or liberally.

Bounty (n.) A premium offered or given to induce men to enlist into the public service; or to encourage any branch of industry, as husbandry or manufactures.

Bouquet (n.) A nosegay; a bunch of flowers.

Bouquet (n.) A perfume; an aroma; as, the bouquet of wine.

Bouquetin (n.) The ibex.

Bour (n.) A chamber or a cottage.

Bourbon (n.) A member of a family which has occupied several European thrones, and whose descendants still claim the throne of France.

Bourbon (n.) A politician who is behind the age; a ruler or politician who neither forgets nor learns anything; an obstinate conservative.

Bourbonism (n.) The principles of those adhering to the house of Bourbon; obstinate conservatism.

Bourbonist (n.) One who adheres to the house of Bourbon; a legitimist.

Bourbon whisky () See under Whisky.

Bourd (n.) A jest.

Bourd (v. i.) To jest.

Bourder (n.) A jester.

Bourdon (n.) A pilgrim's staff.

Bourdon (n.) A drone bass, as in a bagpipe, or a hurdy-gurdy. See Burden (of a song.)

Bourdon (n.) A kind of organ stop.

Bourgeois (n.) A size of type between long primer and brevier. See Type.

Bourgeois (n.) A man of middle rank in society; one of the shopkeeping class.

Bourgeois (a.) Characteristic of the middle class, as in France.

Bourgeoisie (n.) The French middle class, particularly such as are concerned in, or dependent on, trade.

Bourgeon (v. i.) To sprout; to put forth buds; to shoot forth, as a branch.

Bouri (n.) A mullet (Mugil capito) found in the rivers of Southern Europe and in Africa.

Bourn (v.) Alt. of Bourne

Bourne (v.) A stream or rivulet; a burn.

Bourn (n.) Alt. of Bourne

Bourne (n.) A bound; a boundary; a limit. Hence: Point aimed at; goal.

Bournless (a.) Without a bourn or limit.

Bournonite (n.) A mineral of a steel-gray to black color and metallic luster, occurring crystallized, often in twin crystals shaped like cogwheels (wheel ore), also massive. It is a sulphide of antimony, lead, and copper.

Bournous (n.) See Burnoose.

Bourree (n.) An old French dance tune in common time.

Bourse (n.) An exchange, or place where merchants, bankers, etc., meet for business at certain hours; esp., the Stock Exchange of Paris.

Bouse (v. i.) To drink immoderately; to carouse; to booze. See Booze.

Bouse (n.) Drink, esp. alcoholic drink; also, a carouse; a booze.

Bouser (n.) A toper; a boozer.

Boustrophedon (n.) An ancient mode of writing, in alternate directions, one line from left to right, and the next from right to left (as fields are plowed), as in early Greek and Hittite.

Boustrophedonic (a.) Relating to the boustrophedon made of writing.

Boustorphic (a.) Boustrophedonic.

Bousy (a.) Drunken; sotted; boozy.

Bout (n.) As much of an action as is performed at one time; a going and returning, as of workmen in reaping, mowing, etc.; a turn; a round.

Bout (n.) A conflict; contest; attempt; trial; a set-to at anything; as, a fencing bout; a drinking bout.

Boutade (n.) An outbreak; a caprice; a whim.

Boutefeu (n.) An incendiary; an inciter of quarrels.

Boutonniere (n.) A bouquet worn in a buttonhole.

Bouts-rimes (n. pl.) Words that rhyme, proposed as the ends of verses, to be filled out by the ingenuity of the person to whom they are offered.

Bovate (n.) An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; an ancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usually estimated at fifteen acres.

Bovey coal () A kind of mineral coal, or brown lignite, burning with a weak flame, and generally a disagreeable odor; -- found at Bovey Tracey, Devonshire, England. It is of geological age of the oolite, and not of the true coal era.

Bovid (a.) Relating to that tribe of ruminant mammals of which the genus Bos is the type.

Boviform (a.) Resembling an ox in form; ox-shaped.

Bovine (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Bos; relating to, or resembling, the ox or cow; oxlike; as, the bovine genus; a bovine antelope.

Bovine (a.) Having qualities characteristic of oxen or cows; sluggish and patient; dull; as, a bovine temperament.

Bowed (imp. & p. p.) of Bow

Bowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bow

Bow (v. t.) To cause to deviate from straightness; to bend; to inflect; to make crooked or curved.

Bow (v. t.) To exercise powerful or controlling influence over; to bend, figuratively; to turn; to incline.

Bow (v. t.) To bend or incline, as the head or body, in token of respect, gratitude, assent, homage, or condescension.

Bow (v. t.) To cause to bend down; to prostrate; to depress,;/ to crush; to subdue.

Bow (v. t.) To express by bowing; as, to bow one's thanks.

Bow (v. i.) To bend; to curve.

Bow (v. i.) To stop.

Bow (v. i.) To bend the head, knee, or body, in token of reverence or submission; -- often with down.

Bow (v. i.) To incline the head in token of salutation, civility, or assent; to make bow.

Bow (n.) An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in token of reverence, respect, civility, or submission; an obeisance; as, a bow of deep humility.

Bow (v. t.) Anything bent, or in the form of a curve, as the rainbow.

Bow (v. t.) A weapon made of a strip of wood, or other elastic material, with a cord connecting the two ends, by means of which an arrow is propelled.

Bow (v. t.) An ornamental knot, with projecting loops, formed by doubling a ribbon or string.

Bow (v. t.) The U-shaped piece which embraces the neck of an ox and fastens it to the yoke.

Bow (v. t.) An appliance consisting of an elastic rod, with a number of horse hairs stretched from end to end of it, used in playing on a stringed instrument.

Bow (v. t.) An arcograph.

Bow (v. t.) Any instrument consisting of an elastic rod, with ends connected by a string, employed for giving reciprocating motion to a drill, or for preparing and arranging the hair, fur, etc., used by hatters.

Bow (v. t.) A rude sort of quadrant formerly used for taking the sun's altitude at sea.

Bow (sing. or pl.) Two pieces of wood which form the arched forward part of a saddletree.

Bowed (imp. & p. p.) of Bow

Bowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bow

Bow (v. i.) To play (music) with a bow.

Bow (v. i. ) To manage the bow.

Bow (n.) The bending or rounded part of a ship forward; the stream or prow.

Bow (n.) One who rows in the forward part of a boat; the bow oar.

Bowable (a.) Capable of being bowed or bent; flexible; easily influenced; yielding.

Bowbell (n.) One born within hearing distance of Bow-bells; a cockney.

Bow-bells (n. pl.) The bells of Bow Church in London; cockneydom.

Bowbent (a.) Bent, like a bow.

Bow-compasses (pl. ) of Bow-compass

Bow-compass (n.) An arcograph.

Bow-compass (n.) A small pair of compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil, or a pen, for drawing circles. Its legs are often connected by a bow-shaped spring, instead of by a joint.

Bow-compass (n.) A pair of compasses, with a bow or arched plate riveted to one of the legs, and passing through the other.

Bowel (n.) One of the intestines of an animal; an entrail, especially of man; a gut; -- generally used in the plural.

Bowel (n.) Hence, figuratively: The interior part of anything; as, the bowels of the earth.

Bowel (n.) The seat of pity or kindness. Hence: Tenderness; compassion.

Bowel (n.) Offspring.

Boweled (imp. & p. p.) of Bowel

Bowelled () of Bowel

Boweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bowel

Bowelling () of Bowel

Bowel (v. t.) To take out the bowels of; to eviscerate; to disembowel.

Boweled (a.) Having bowels; hollow.

Bowelless (a.) Without pity.

Bowenite (n.) A hard, compact variety of serpentine found in Rhode Island. It is of a light green color and resembles jade.

Bower (v. & n.) One who bows or bends.

Bower (v. & n.) An anchor carried at the bow of a ship.

Bower (v. & n.) A muscle that bends a limb, esp. the arm.

Bower (n.) One of the two highest cards in the pack commonly used in the game of euchre.

Bower (n.) Anciently, a chamber; a lodging room; esp., a lady's private apartment.

Bower (n.) A rustic cottage or abode; poetically, an attractive abode or retreat.

Bower (n.) A shelter or covered place in a garden, made with boughs of trees or vines, etc., twined together; an arbor; a shady recess.

Bower (v. t.) To embower; to inclose.

Bower (v. i.) To lodge.

Bower (n.) A young hawk, when it begins to leave the nest.

Bower bird () An Australian bird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus / holosericeus), allied to the starling, which constructs singular bowers or playhouses of twigs and decorates them with bright-colored objects; the satin bird.

Bowery (a.) Shading, like a bower; full of bowers.

Boweries (pl. ) of Bowery

Bowery (n.) A farm or plantation with its buildings.

Bowery (a.) Characteristic of the street called the Bowery, in New York city; swaggering; flashy.

Bowess (n.) Same as Bower.

Bowfin (n.) A voracious ganoid fish (Amia calva) found in the fresh waters of the United States; the mudfish; -- called also Johnny Grindle, and dogfish.

Bowge (v. i.) To swell out. See Bouge.

Bowge (v. t.) To cause to leak.

Bowgrace (n.) A frame or fender of rope or junk, laid out at the sides or bows of a vessel to secure it from injury by floating ice.

Bow hand () The hand that holds the bow, i. e., the left hand.

Bow hand () The hand that draws the bow, i. e., the right hand.

Bowhead (n.) The great Arctic or Greenland whale. (Balaena mysticetus). See Baleen, and Whale.

Bowie knife () A knife with a strong blade from ten to fifteen inches long, and double-edged near the point; -- used as a hunting knife, and formerly as a weapon in the southwestern part of the United States. It was named from its inventor, Colonel James Bowie. Also, by extension, any large sheath knife.

Bowing (n.) The act or art of managing the bow in playing on stringed instruments.

Bowing (n.) In hatmaking, the act or process of separating and distributing the fur or hair by means of a bow, to prepare it for felting.

Bowingly (adv.) In a bending manner.

Bowknot (n.) A knot in which a portion of the string is drawn through in the form of a loop or bow, so as to be readily untied.

Bowl (n.) A concave vessel of various forms (often approximately hemispherical), to hold liquids, etc.

Bowl (n.) Specifically, a drinking vessel for wine or other spirituous liquors; hence, convivial drinking.

Bowl (n.) The contents of a full bowl; what a bowl will hold.

Bowl (n.) The hollow part of a thing; as, the bowl of a spoon.

Bowl (n.) A ball of wood or other material used for rolling on a level surface in play; a ball of hard wood having one side heavier than the other, so as to give it a bias when rolled.

Bowl (n.) An ancient game, popular in Great Britain, played with biased balls on a level plat of greensward.

Bowl (n.) The game of tenpins or bowling.

Bowled (imp. & p. p.) of Bowl

Bowling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bowl

Bowl (v. t.) To roll, as a bowl or cricket ball.

Bowl (v. t.) To roll or carry smoothly on, or as on, wheels; as, we were bowled rapidly along the road.

Bowl (v. t.) To pelt or strike with anything rolled.

Bowl (v. i.) To play with bowls.

Bowl (v. i.) To roll a ball on a plane, as at cricket, bowls, etc.

Bowl (v. i.) To move rapidly, smoothly, and like a ball; as, the carriage bowled along.

Bowlder (n.) Alt. of Boulder

Boulder (n.) A large stone, worn smooth or rounded by the action of water; a large pebble.

Boulder (n.) A mass of any rock, whether rounded or not, that has been transported by natural agencies from its native bed. See Drift.

Bowldery (a.) Characterized by bowlders.

Bowleg (n.) A crooked leg.

Bowl-legged (a.) Having crooked legs, esp. with the knees bent outward.

Bowler (n.) One who plays at bowls, or who rolls the ball in cricket or any other game.

Bowless (a.) Destitute of a bow.

Bowline (n.) A rope fastened near the middle of the leech or perpendicular edge of the square sails, by subordinate ropes, called bridles, and used to keep the weather edge of the sail tight forward, when the ship is closehauled.

Bowling (n.) The act of playing at or rolling bowls, or of rolling the ball at cricket; the game of bowls or of tenpins.

Bowls (n. pl.) See Bowl, a ball, a game.

Bowmen (pl. ) of Bowman

Bowman (n.) A man who uses a bow; an archer.

Bowman (n.) The man who rows the foremost oar in a boat; the bow oar.

Bowne (v. t.) To make ready; to prepare; to dress.

Bow net () A trap for lobsters, being a wickerwork cylinder with a funnel-shaped entrance at one end.

Bow net () A net for catching birds.

Bow oar () The oar used by the bowman.

Bow oar () One who rows at the bow of a boat.

Bow-pen (n.) Bow-compasses carrying a drawing pen. See Bow-compass.

Bow-pencil (n.) Bow-compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil.

Bow-saw (n.) A saw with a thin or narrow blade set in a strong frame.

Bowse (v. i.) To carouse; to bouse; to booze.

Bowse (v. i.) To pull or haul; as, to bowse upon a tack; to bowse away, i. e., to pull all together.

Bowse (n.) A carouse; a drinking bout; a booze.

Bowshot (n.) The distance traversed by an arrow shot from a bow.

Bowsprit (n.) A large boom or spar, which projects over the stem of a ship or other vessel, to carry sail forward.

Bowssen (v. t.) To drench; to soak; especially, to immerse (in water believed to have curative properties).

Bowstring (n.) The string of a bow.

Bowstring (n.) A string used by the Turks for strangling offenders.

Bowstringed (imp. & p. p.) of Bowstring

Bowstrung () of Bowstring

Bowstringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bowstring

Bowstring (v. t.) To strangle with a bowstring.

Bowstringed (p.a.) Furnished with bowstring.

Bowstringed (p.a.) Put to death with a bowstring; strangled.

Bowtel (n.) See Boultel.

Bowwow (n.) An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark.

Bowwow (a.) Onomatopoetic; as, the bowwow theory of language; a bowwow word.

Bowyer (n.) An archer; one who uses bow.

Bowyer (n.) One who makes or sells bows.

Box (n.) A tree or shrub, flourishing in different parts of the world. The common box (Buxus sempervirens) has two varieties, one of which, the dwarf box (B. suffruticosa), is much used for borders in gardens. The wood of the tree varieties, being very hard and smooth, is extensively used in the arts, as by turners, engravers, mathematical instrument makers, etc.

Boxes (pl. ) of Box

Box (n.) A receptacle or case of any firm material and of various shapes.

Box (n.) The quantity that a box contain.

Box (n.) A space with a few seats partitioned off in a theater, or other place of public amusement.

Box (n.) A chest or any receptacle for the deposit of money; as, a poor box; a contribution box.

Box (n.) A small country house.

Box (n.) A boxlike shed for shelter; as, a sentry box.

Box (n.) An axle box, journal box, journal bearing, or bushing.

Box (n.) A chamber or section of tube in which a valve works; the bucket of a lifting pump.

Box (n.) The driver's seat on a carriage or coach.

Box (n.) A present in a box; a present; esp. a Christmas box or gift.

Box (n.) The square in which the pitcher stands.

Box (n.) A Mediterranean food fish; the bogue.

Boxed (imp. & p. p.) of Box

Boxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Box

Box (v. t.) To inclose in a box.

Box (v. t.) To furnish with boxes, as a wheel.

Box (v. t.) To inclose with boarding, lathing, etc., so as to bring to a required form.

Box (n.) A blow on the head or ear with the hand.

Box (v. i.) To fight with the fist; to combat with, or as with, the hand or fist; to spar.

Box (v. t.) To strike with the hand or fist, especially to strike on the ear, or on the side of the head.

Box (v. t.) To boxhaul.

Boxberry (n.) The wintergreen. (Gaultheria procumbens).

Boxen (a.) Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus).

Boxer (n.) One who packs boxes.

Boxer (n.) One who boxes; a pugilist.

Boxfish (n.) The trunkfish.

Boxhauled (imp. & p. p.) of Boxhaul

Boxhaul (v. t.) To put (a vessel) on the other tack by veering her short round on her heel; -- so called from the circumstance of bracing the head yards abox (i. e., sharp aback, on the wind).

Boxhauling (n.) A method of going from one tack to another. See Boxhaul.

Boxing (n.) The act of inclosing (anything) in a box, as for storage or transportation.

Boxing (n.) Material used in making boxes or casings.

Boxing (n.) Any boxlike inclosure or recess; a casing.

Boxing (n.) The external case of thin material used to bring any member to a required form.

Boxing (n.) The act of fighting with the fist; a combat with the fist; sparring.

Box-iron (n.) A hollow smoothing iron containing a heater within.

Boxkeeper (n.) An attendant at a theater who has charge of the boxes.

Boxthorn (n.) A plant of the genus Lycium, esp. Lycium barbarum.

Boxwood (n.) The wood of the box (Buxus).

Boy (n.) A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, a son.

Boy (v. t.) To act as a boy; -- in allusion to the former practice of boys acting women's parts on the stage.

Boyar (n.) Alt. of Boyard

Boyard (n.) A member of a Russian aristocratic order abolished by Peter the Great. Also, one of a privileged class in Roumania.

Boyaux (pl. ) of Boyau

Boyaus (pl. ) of Boyau

Boyau (n.) A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication from one siegework to another, to a magazine, etc.

Boycotted (imp. & p. p.) of Boycott

Boycotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boycott

Boycott (v. t.) To combine against (a landlord, tradesman, employer, or other person), to withhold social or business relations from him, and to deter others from holding such relations; to subject to a boycott.

Boycott (n.) The process, fact, or pressure of boycotting; a combining to withhold or prevent dealing or social intercourse with a tradesman, employer, etc.; social and business interdiction for the purpose of coercion.

Boycotter (n.) A participant in boycotting.

Boycottism (n.) Methods of boycotters.

Boydekin (n.) A dagger; a bodkin.

Boyer (n.) A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end.

Boyhood (n.) The state of being a boy; the time during which one is a boy.

Boyish (a.) Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy; childish; trifling; puerile.

Boyishly (adv.) In a boyish manner; like a boy.

Boyishness (n.) The manners or behavior of a boy.

Boyism (n.) Boyhood.

Boyism (n.) The nature of a boy; childishness.

Boyle's law () See under Law.

Boza (n.) An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, made from millet seed and various astringent substances; also, an intoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water.

Brabantine (a.) Pertaining to Brabant, an ancient province of the Netherlands.

Brabble (v. i.) To clamor; to contest noisily.

Brabble (n.) A broil; a noisy contest; a wrangle.

Brabblement (n.) A brabble.

Brabbler (n.) A clamorous, quarrelsome, noisy fellow; a wrangler.

Braccate (a.) Furnished with feathers which conceal the feet.

Brace (n.) That which holds anything tightly or supports it firmly; a bandage or a prop.

Brace (n.) A cord, ligament, or rod, for producing or maintaining tension, as a cord on the side of a drum.

Brace (n.) The state of being braced or tight; tension.

Brace (n.) A piece of material used to transmit, or change the direction of, weight or pressure; any one of the pieces, in a frame or truss, which divide the structure into triangular parts. It may act as a tie, or as a strut, and serves to prevent distortion of the structure, and transverse strains in its members. A boiler brace is a diagonal stay, connecting the head with the shell.

Brace (n.) A vertical curved line connecting two or more words or lines, which are to be taken together; thus, boll, bowl; or, in music, used to connect staves.

Brace (n.) A rope reeved through a block at the end of a yard, by which the yard is moved horizontally; also, a rudder gudgeon.

Brace (n.) A curved instrument or handle of iron or wood, for holding and turning bits, etc.; a bitstock.

Brace (n.) A pair; a couple; as, a brace of ducks; now rarely applied to persons, except familiarly or with some contempt.

Brace (n.) Straps or bands to sustain trousers; suspenders.

Brace (n.) Harness; warlike preparation.

Brace (n.) Armor for the arm; vantbrace.

Brace (n.) The mouth of a shaft.

Braced (imp. & p. p.) of Brace

Bracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brace

Brace (v. t.) To furnish with braces; to support; to prop; as, to brace a beam in a building.

Brace (v. t.) To draw tight; to tighten; to put in a state of tension; to strain; to strengthen; as, to brace the nerves.

Brace (v. t.) To bind or tie closely; to fasten tightly.

Brace (v. t.) To place in a position for resisting pressure; to hold firmly; as, he braced himself against the crowd.

Brace (v. t.) To move around by means of braces; as, to brace the yards.

Brace (v. i.) To get tone or vigor; to rouse one's energies; -- with up.

Bracelet (n.) An ornamental band or ring, for the wrist or the arm; in modern times, an ornament encircling the wrist, worn by women or girls.

Bracelet (n.) A piece of defensive armor for the arm.

Bracer (n.) That which braces, binds, or makes firm; a band or bandage.

Bracer (n.) A covering to protect the arm of the bowman from the vibration of the string; also, a brassart.

Bracer (n.) A medicine, as an astringent or a tonic, which gives tension or tone to any part of the body.

Brach (n.) A bitch of the hound kind.

Brachelytra (n. pl.) A group of beetles having short elytra, as the rove beetles.

Brachia (n. pl.) See Brachium.

Brachial (a.) Pertaining or belonging to the arm; as, the brachial artery; the brachial nerve.

Brachial (a.) Of the nature of an arm; resembling an arm.

Brachiata (n. pl.) A division of the Crinoidea, including those furnished with long jointed arms. See Crinoidea.

Brachiate (a.) Having branches in pairs, decussated, all nearly horizontal, and each pair at right angles with the next, as in the maple and lilac.

Brachioganoid (n.) One of the Brachioganoidei.

Brachioganoidei (n. pl.) An order of ganoid fishes of which the bichir of Africa is a living example. See Crossopterygii.

Brachiolaria (n. pl.) A peculiar early larval stage of certain starfishes, having a bilateral structure, and swimming by means of bands of vibrating cilia.

Brachiopod (n.) One of the Brachiopoda, or its shell.

Brachiopoda (n.) A class of Molluscoidea having a symmetrical bivalve shell, often attached by a fleshy peduncle.

Bracchia (pl. ) of Brachium

Brachium (n.) The upper arm; the segment of the fore limb between the shoulder and the elbow.

Brachman (n.) See Brahman.

Brachycatalectic (n.) A verse wanting two syllables at its termination.

Brachycephalic (a.) Alt. of Brachycephalous

Brachycephalous (a.) Having the skull short in proportion to its breadth; shortheaded; -- in distinction from dolichocephalic.

Brachycephaly (n.) Alt. of Brachycephalism

Brachycephalism (n.) The state or condition of being brachycephalic; shortness of head.

Brachyceral (a.) Having short antennae, as certain insects.

Brachydiagonal (a.) Pertaining to the shorter diagonal, as of a rhombic prism.

Brachydiagonal (n.) The shorter of the diagonals in a rhombic prism.

Brachydome (n.) A dome parallel to the shorter lateral axis. See Dome.

Brachygrapher (n.) A writer in short hand; a stenographer.

Brachygraphy (n.) Stenography.

Brachylogy (n.) Conciseness of expression; brevity.

Brachypinacoid (n.) A plane of an orthorhombic crystal which is parallel both to the vertical axis and to the shorter lateral (brachydiagonal) axis.

Brachyptera (n. pl.) A group of Coleoptera having short wings; the rove beetles.

Brachypteres (n.pl.) A group of birds, including auks, divers, and penguins.

Brachypterous (a.) Having short wings.

Brachystochrone (n.) A curve, in which a body, starting from a given point, and descending solely by the force of gravity, will reach another given point in a shorter time than it could by any other path. This curve of quickest descent, as it is sometimes called, is, in a vacuum, the same as the cycloid.

Brachytypous (a.) Of a short form.

Brachyura (n. pl.) A group of decapod Crustacea, including the common crabs, characterized by a small and short abdomen, which is bent up beneath the large cephalo-thorax. [Also spelt Brachyoura.] See Crab, and Illustration in Appendix.

Brachyural (a.) Alt. of Brachyurous

Brachyurous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Brachyura.

Brachyuran (n.) One of the Brachyura.

Bracing (a.) Imparting strength or tone; strengthening; invigorating; as, a bracing north wind.

Bracing (n.) The act of strengthening, supporting, or propping, with a brace or braces; the state of being braced.

Bracing (n.) Any system of braces; braces, collectively; as, the bracing of a truss.

Brack (n.) An opening caused by the parting of any solid body; a crack or breach; a flaw.

Brack (n.) Salt or brackish water.

Bracken (n.) A brake or fern.

Bracket (n.) An architectural member, plain or ornamental, projecting from a wall or pier, to support weight falling outside of the same; also, a decorative feature seeming to discharge such an office.

Bracket (n.) A piece or combination of pieces, usually triangular in general shape, projecting from, or fastened to, a wall, or other surface, to support heavy bodies or to strengthen angles.

Bracket (n.) A shot, crooked timber, resembling a knee, used as a support.

Bracket (n.) The cheek or side of an ordnance carriage.

Bracket (n.) One of two characters [], used to inclose a reference, explanation, or note, or a part to be excluded from a sentence, to indicate an interpolation, to rectify a mistake, or to supply an omission, and for certain other purposes; -- called also crotchet.

Bracket (n.) A gas fixture or lamp holder projecting from the face of a wall, column, or the like.

Bracketed (imp. & p. p.) of Bracket

Bracketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bracket

Bracket (v. t.) To place within brackets; to connect by brackets; to furnish with brackets.

Bracketing (n.) A series or group of brackets; brackets, collectively.

Brackish (a.) Saltish, or salt in a moderate degree, as water in saline soil.

Brackishness (n.) The quality or state of being brackish, or somewhat salt.

Bracky (a.) Brackish.

Bract (n.) A leaf, usually smaller than the true leaves of a plant, from the axil of which a flower stalk arises.

Bract (n.) Any modified leaf, or scale, on a flower stalk or at the base of a flower.

Bractea (n.) A bract.

Bracteal (a.) Having the nature or appearance of a bract.

Bracteate (a.) Having a bract or bracts.

Bracted (a.) Furnished with bracts.

Bracteolate (a.) Furnished with bracteoles or bractlets.

Bracteole (n.) Same as Bractlet.

Bractless (a.) Destitute of bracts.

Bractlet (n.) A bract on the stalk of a single flower, which is itself on a main stalk that support several flowers.

Brad (n.) A thin nail, usually small, with a slight projection at the top on one side instead of a head; also, a small wire nail, with a flat circular head; sometimes, a small, tapering, square-bodied finishing nail, with a countersunk head.

Brad awl () A straight awl with chisel edge, used to make holes for brads, etc.

Bradoon (n.) Same as Bridoon.

Brae (n.) A hillside; a slope; a bank; a hill.

Bragged (imp. & p. p.) of Brag

Bragging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brag

Brag (v. i.) To talk about one's self, or things pertaining to one's self, in a manner intended to excite admiration, envy, or wonder; to talk boastfully; to boast; -- often followed by of; as, to brag of one's exploits, courage, or money, or of the great things one intends to do.

Brag (v. t.) To boast of.

Brag (n.) A boast or boasting; bragging; ostentatious pretense or self glorification.

Brag (n.) The thing which is boasted of.

Brag (n.) A game at cards similar to bluff.

Brag (v. i.) Brisk; full of spirits; boasting; pretentious; conceited.

Brag (adv.) Proudly; boastfully.

Braggadocio (n.) A braggart; a boaster; a swaggerer.

Braggadocio (n.) Empty boasting; mere brag; pretension.

Braggardism (n.) Boastfulness; act of bragging.

Braggart (v. i.) A boaster.

Braggart (a.) Boastful.

Bragger (n.) One who brags; a boaster.

Bragget (n.) A liquor made of ale and honey fermented, with spices, etc.

Braggingly (adv.) Boastingly.

Bragless (a.) Without bragging.

Bragly (adv.) In a manner to be bragged of; finely; proudly.

Brahma (n.) The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods. The triad consists of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer.

Brahma (n.) A valuable variety of large, domestic fowl, peculiar in having the comb divided lengthwise into three parts, and the legs well feathered. There are two breeds, the dark or penciled, and the light; -- called also Brahmapootra.

Brahmans (pl. ) of Brahmin

Brahmins (pl. ) of Brahmin

Brahman (n.) Alt. of Brahmin

Brahmin (n.) A person of the highest or sacerdotal caste among the Hindoos.

Brahmaness (n.) A Brahmani.

Brahmani (n.) Any Brahman woman.

Brahmanic (a.) Alt. of ical

-ical (a.) Alt. of ical

Brahminic (a.) Alt. of ical

ical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Brahmans or to their doctrines and worship.

Brahmanism (n.) Alt. of Brahminism

Brahminism (n.) The religion or system of doctrines of the Brahmans; the religion of Brahma.

Brahmanist (n.) Alt. of Brahminist

Brahminist (n.) An adherent of the religion of the Brahmans.

Brahmoism (n.) The religious system of Brahmo-somaj.

Brahmo-somaj (n.) A modern reforming theistic sect among the Hindoos.

Braided (imp. &. p. p.) of Braid

Braiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Braid

Braid (v. t.) To weave, interlace, or entwine together, as three or more strands or threads; to form into a braid; to plait.

Braid (v. t.) To mingle, or to bring to a uniformly soft consistence, by beating, rubbing, or straining, as in some culinary operations.

Braid (v. t.) To reproach. [Obs.] See Upbraid.

Braid (n.) A plait, band, or narrow fabric formed by intertwining or weaving together different strands.

Braid (n.) A narrow fabric, as of wool, silk, or linen, used for binding, trimming, or ornamenting dresses, etc.

Braid (n.) A quick motion; a start.

Braid (n.) A fancy; freak; caprice.

Braid (v. i.) To start; to awake.

Braid (v. t.) Deceitful.

Braiding (n.) The act of making or using braids.

Braiding (n.) Braids, collectively; trimming.

Brail (n.) A thong of soft leather to bind up a hawk's wing.

Brail (n.) Ropes passing through pulleys, and used to haul in or up the leeches, bottoms, or corners of sails, preparatory to furling.

Brail (n.) A stock at each end of a seine to keep it stretched.

Brail (v. t.) To haul up by the brails; -- used with up; as, to brail up a sail.

Brain (n.) The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervous system, and the seat of consciousness and volition) which is inclosed in the cartilaginous or bony cranium of vertebrate animals. It is simply the anterior termination of the spinal cord, and is developed from three embryonic vesicles, whose cavities are connected with the central canal of the cord; the cavities of the vesicles become the central cavities, or ventricles, and the walls thicken unequally and become the three segments, the fore-, mid-, and hind-brain.

Brain (n.) The anterior or cephalic ganglion in insects and other invertebrates.

Brain (n.) The organ or seat of intellect; hence, the understanding.

Brain (n.) The affections; fancy; imagination.

Brained (imp. & p. p.) of Brain

Braining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brain

Brain (v. t.) To dash out the brains of; to kill by beating out the brains. Hence, Fig.: To destroy; to put an end to; to defeat.

Brain (v. t.) To conceive; to understand.

Brained (p.a.) Supplied with brains.

Brainish (a.) Hot-headed; furious.

Brainless (a.) Without understanding; silly; thoughtless; witless.

Brainpan (n.) The bones which inclose the brain; the skull; the cranium.

Brainsick (a.) Disordered in the understanding; giddy; thoughtless.

Brainsickly (adv.) In a brainsick manner.

Brainy (a.) Having an active or vigorous mind.

Braise (n.) Alt. of Braize

Braize (n.) A European marine fish (Pagrus vulgaris) allied to the American scup; the becker. The name is sometimes applied to the related species.

Braise (n.) Alt. of Braize

Braize (n.) Charcoal powder; breeze.

Braize (n.) Braised meat.

Braise (v. t.) To stew or broil in a covered kettle or pan.

Braiser (n.) A kettle or pan for braising.

Brait (n.) A rough diamond.

Braize (n.) See Braise.

Brake () imp. of Break.

Brake (n.) A fern of the genus Pteris, esp. the P. aquilina, common in almost all countries. It has solitary stems dividing into three principal branches. Less properly: Any fern.

Brake (n.) A thicket; a place overgrown with shrubs and brambles, with undergrowth and ferns, or with canes.

Brake (v. t.) An instrument or machine to break or bruise the woody part of flax or hemp so that it may be separated from the fiber.

Brake (v. t.) An extended handle by means of which a number of men can unite in working a pump, as in a fire engine.

Brake (v. t.) A baker's kneading though.

Brake (v. t.) A sharp bit or snaffle.

Brake (v. t.) A frame for confining a refractory horse while the smith is shoeing him; also, an inclosure to restrain cattle, horses, etc.

Brake (v. t.) That part of a carriage, as of a movable battery, or engine, which enables it to turn.

Brake (v. t.) An ancient engine of war analogous to the crossbow and ballista.

Brake (v. t.) A large, heavy harrow for breaking clods after plowing; a drag.

Brake (v. t.) A piece of mechanism for retarding or stopping motion by friction, as of a carriage or railway car, by the pressure of rubbers against the wheels, or of clogs or ratchets against the track or roadway, or of a pivoted lever against a wheel or drum in a machine.

Brake (v. t.) An apparatus for testing the power of a steam engine, or other motor, by weighing the amount of friction that the motor will overcome; a friction brake.

Brake (v. t.) A cart or carriage without a body, used in breaking in horses.

Brake (v. t.) An ancient instrument of torture.

Brakemen (pl. ) of Brakeman

Brakeman (n.) A man in charge of a brake or brakes.

Brakeman (n.) The man in charge of the winding (or hoisting) engine for a mine.

Braky (a.) Full of brakes; abounding with brambles, shrubs, or ferns; rough; thorny.

Brama (n.) See Brahma.

Bramah press () A hydrostatic press of immense power, invented by Joseph Bramah of London. See under Hydrostatic.

Bramble (n.) Any plant of the genus Rubus, including the raspberry and blackberry. Hence: Any rough, prickly shrub.

Bramble (n.) The brambling or bramble finch.

Bramble bush () The bramble, or a collection of brambles growing together.

Brambled (a.) Overgrown with brambles.

Bramble net () A net to catch birds.

Brambling (n.) The European mountain finch (Fringilla montifringilla); -- called also bramble finch and bramble.

Brambly (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or full of, brambles.

Brame (n.) Sharp passion; vexation.

Bramin () Alt. of Braminic

Braminic () See Brahman, Brachmanic, etc.

Bran (n.) The broken coat of the seed of wheat, rye, or other cereal grain, separated from the flour or meal by sifting or bolting; the coarse, chaffy part of ground grain.

Bran (n.) The European carrion crow.

Brancard (n.) A litter on which a person may be carried.

Branches (pl. ) of Branch

Branch (n.) A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from a principal limb or bough of a tree or other plant.

Branch (n.) Any division extending like a branch; any arm or part connected with the main body of thing; ramification; as, the branch of an antler; the branch of a chandelier; a branch of a river; a branch of a railway.

Branch (n.) Any member or part of a body or system; a distinct article; a section or subdivision; a department.

Branch (n.) One of the portions of a curve that extends outwards to an indefinitely great distance; as, the branches of an hyperbola.

Branch (n.) A line of family descent, in distinction from some other line or lines from the same stock; any descendant in such a line; as, the English branch of a family.

Branch (n.) A warrant or commission given to a pilot, authorizing him to pilot vessels in certain waters.

Branch (a.) Diverging from, or tributary to, a main stock, line, way, theme, etc.; as, a branch vein; a branch road or line; a branch topic; a branch store.

Branched (imp. & p. p.) of Branch

Branching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Branch

Branch (v. i.) To shoot or spread in branches; to separate into branches; to ramify.

Branch (v. i.) To divide into separate parts or subdivision.

Branch (v. t.) To divide as into branches; to make subordinate division in.

Branch (v. t.) To adorn with needlework representing branches, flowers, or twigs.

Brancher (n.) That which shoots forth branches; one who shows growth in various directions.

Brancher (n.) A young hawk when it begins to leave the nest and take to the branches.

Branchery (n.) A system of branches.

Branchiae (pl. ) of Branchia

Branchia (n.) A gill; a respiratory organ for breathing the air contained in water, such as many aquatic and semiaquatic animals have.

Branchial (a.) Of or pertaining to branchiae or gills.

Branchiate (a.) Furnished with branchiae; as, branchiate segments.

Branchiferous (a.) Having gills; branchiate; as, branchiferous gastropods.

Branchiness (n.) Fullness of branches.

Branching (a.) Furnished with branches; shooting our branches; extending in a branch or branches.

Branching (n.) The act or state of separation into branches; division into branches; a division or branch.

Branchiogastropoda (n. pl.) Those Gastropoda that breathe by branchiae, including the Prosobranchiata and Opisthobranchiata.

Branchiomerism (n.) The state of being made up of branchiate segments.

Branchiopod (n.) One of the Branchiopoda.

Branchiopoda (n. pl.) An order of Entomostraca; -- so named from the feet of branchiopods having been supposed to perform the function of gills. It includes the fresh-water genera Branchipus, Apus, and Limnadia, and the genus Artemia found in salt lakes. It is also called Phyllopoda. See Phyllopoda, Cladocera. It is sometimes used in a broader sense.

Branchiostegal (a.) Pertaining to the membrane covering the gills of fishes.

Branchiostegal (n.) A branchiostegal ray. See Illustration of Branchial arches in Appendix.

Branchiostege () The branchiostegal membrane. See Illustration in Appendix.

Branchiostegous (a.) Branchiostegal.

Branchiostoma (n.) The lancelet. See Amphioxus.

Branchiura (n. pl.) A group of Entomostraca, with suctorial mouths, including species parasitic on fishes, as the carp lice (Argulus).

Branchless (a.) Destitute of branches or shoots; without any valuable product; barren; naked.

Branchlet (n.) A little branch; a twig.

Branch pilot () A pilot who has a branch or commission, as from Trinity House, England, for special navigation.

Branchy (a.) Full of branches; having wide-spreading branches; consisting of branches.

Brand (v. t.) A burning piece of wood; or a stick or piece of wood partly burnt, whether burning or after the fire is extinct.

Brand (v. t.) A sword, so called from its glittering or flashing brightness.

Brand (v. t.) A mark made by burning with a hot iron, as upon a cask, to designate the quality, manufacturer, etc., of the contents, or upon an animal, to designate ownership; -- also, a mark for a similar purpose made in any other way, as with a stencil. Hence, figurately: Quality; kind; grade; as, a good brand of flour.

Brand (v. t.) A mark put upon criminals with a hot iron. Hence: Any mark of infamy or vice; a stigma.

Brand (v. t.) An instrument to brand with; a branding iron.

Brand (v. t.) Any minute fungus which produces a burnt appearance in plants. The brands are of many species and several genera of the order Pucciniaei.

Branded (imp. & p. p.) of Brand

Branding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brand

Brand (v. t.) To burn a distinctive mark into or upon with a hot iron, to indicate quality, ownership, etc., or to mark as infamous (as a convict).

Brand (v. t.) To put an actual distinctive mark upon in any other way, as with a stencil, to show quality of contents, name of manufacture, etc.

Brand (v. t.) Fig.: To fix a mark of infamy, or a stigma, upon.

Brand (v. t.) To mark or impress indelibly, as with a hot iron.

Brander (n.) One who, or that which, brands; a branding iron.

Brander (n.) A gridiron.

Brand goose () A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) usually called in America brant. See Brant.

Brandied (a.) Mingled with brandy; made stronger by the addition of brandy; flavored or treated with brandy; as, brandied peaches.

Branding iron () An iron to brand with.

Brand iron () A branding iron.

Brand iron () A trivet to set a pot on.

Brand iron () The horizontal bar of an andiron.

Brandished (imp. & p. p.) of Brandish

Brandishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brandish

Brandish (n.) To move or wave, as a weapon; to raise and move in various directions; to shake or flourish.

Brandish (n.) To play with; to flourish; as, to brandish syllogisms.

Brandish (n.) A flourish, as with a weapon, whip, etc.

Brandisher (n.) One who brandishes.

Brandle (v. t. & i.) To shake; to totter.

Brandling (n.) Alt. of Brandlin

Brandlin (n.) Same as Branlin, fish and worm.

Brand-new (a.) Quite new; bright as if fresh from the forge.

Brand spore () One of several spores growing in a series or chain, and produced by one of the fungi called brand.

Brandies (pl. ) of Brandy

Brandy (n.) A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. The name is also given to spirit distilled from other liquors, and in the United States to that distilled from cider and peaches. In northern Europe, it is also applied to a spirit obtained from grain.

Brandywine (n.) Brandy.

Brangle (n.) A wrangle; a squabble; a noisy contest or dispute.

Brangled (imp. & p. p.) of Brangle

Brangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brangle

Brangle (v. i.) To wrangle; to dispute contentiously; to squabble.

Branglement (n.) Wrangle; brangle.

Brangler (n.) A quarrelsome person.

Brangling (n.) A quarrel.

Brank (n.) Buckwheat.

Brank (n.) Alt. of Branks

Branks (n.) A sort of bridle with wooden side pieces.

Branks (n.) A scolding bridle, an instrument formerly used for correcting scolding women. It was an iron frame surrounding the head and having a triangular piece entering the mouth of the scold.

Brank (v. i.) To hold up and toss the head; -- applied to horses as spurning the bit.

Brank (v. i.) To prance; to caper.

Brankursine (n.) Bear's-breech, or Acanthus.

Branlin (n.) A young salmon or parr, in the stage in which it has transverse black bands, as if burned by a gridiron.

Branlin (n.) A small red worm or larva, used as bait for small fresh-water fish; -- so called from its red color.

Bran-new (a.) See Brand-new.

Branny (a.) Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containing bran.

Bransle (n.) A brawl or dance.

Brant (n.) A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) -- called also brent and brand goose. The name is also applied to other related species.

Brant (a.) Steep.

Brantail (n.) The European redstart; -- so called from the red color of its tail.

Brant-fox (n.) A kind of fox found in Sweden (Vulpes alopex), smaller than the common fox (V. vulgaris), but probably a variety of it.

Branular (a.) Relating to the brain; cerebral.

Brasen (a.) Same as Brazen.

Brash (a.) Hasty in temper; impetuous.

Brash (a.) Brittle, as wood or vegetables.

Brash (n.) A rash or eruption; a sudden or transient fit of sickness.

Brash (n.) Refuse boughs of trees; also, the clippings of hedges.

Brash (n.) Broken and angular fragments of rocks underlying alluvial deposits.

Brash (n.) Broken fragments of ice.

Brasier (n.) Alt. of Brazier

Brazier (n.) An artificer who works in brass.

Brasier (n.) Alt. of Brazier

Brazier (n.) A pan for holding burning coals.

Brasses (pl. ) of Brass

Brass (n.) An alloy (usually yellow) of copper and zinc, in variable proportion, but often containing two parts of copper to one part of zinc. It sometimes contains tin, and rarely other metals.

Brass (n.) A journal bearing, so called because frequently made of brass. A brass is often lined with a softer metal, when the latter is generally called a white metal lining. See Axle box, Journal Box, and Bearing.

Brass (n.) Coin made of copper, brass, or bronze.

Brass (n.) Impudence; a brazen face.

Brass (n.) Utensils, ornaments, or other articles of brass.

Brass (n.) A brass plate engraved with a figure or device. Specifically, one used as a memorial to the dead, and generally having the portrait, coat of arms, etc.

Brass (n.) Lumps of pyrites or sulphuret of iron, the color of which is near to that of brass.

Brassage (n.) A sum formerly levied to pay the expense of coinage; -- now called seigniorage.

Brassart (n.) Armor for the arm; -- generally used for the whole arm from the shoulder to the wrist, and consisting, in the 15th and 16th centuries, of many parts.

Brasse (n.) A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling a perch.

Brassets (n.) See Brassart.

Brassica (n.) A genus of plants embracing several species and varieties differing much in appearance and qualities: such as the common cabbage (B. oleracea), broccoli, cauliflowers, etc.; the wild turnip (B. campestris); the common turnip (B. rapa); the rape or coleseed (B. napus), etc.

Brassicaceous (a.) Related to, or resembling, the cabbage, or plants of the Cabbage family.

Brassiness (n.) The state, condition, or quality of being brassy.

Brass-visaged (a.) Impudent; bold.

Brassy (a.) Of or pertaining to brass; having the nature, appearance, or hardness, of brass.

Brassy (a.) Impudent; impudently bold.

Brast (v. t. & i.) To burst.

Brat (n.) A coarse garment or cloak; also, coarse clothing, in general.

Brat (n.) A coarse kind of apron for keeping the clothes clean; a bib.

Brat (n.) A child; an offspring; -- formerly used in a good sense, but now usually in a contemptuous sense.

Brat (n.) The young of an animal.

Brat (n.) A thin bed of coal mixed with pyrites or carbonate of lime.

Bratsche (n.) The tenor viola, or viola.

Brattice (n.) A wall of separation in a shaft or gallery used for ventilation.

Brattice (n.) Planking to support a roof or wall.

Brattishing (n.) See Brattice, n.

Brattishing (n.) Carved openwork, as of a shrine, battlement, or parapet.

Braunite (n.) A native oxide of manganese, of dark brownish black color. It was named from a Mr. Braun of Gotha.

Bravade (n.) Bravado.

Bravadoes (pl. ) of Bravado

Bravado (n.) Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace.

Brave (superl.) Bold; courageous; daring; intrepid; -- opposed to cowardly; as, a brave man; a brave act.

Brave (superl.) Having any sort of superiority or excellence; -- especially such as in conspicuous.

Brave (superl.) Making a fine show or display.

Brave (n.) A brave person; one who is daring.

Brave (n.) Specifically, an Indian warrior.

Brave (n.) A man daring beyond discretion; a bully.

Brave (n.) A challenge; a defiance; bravado.

Braved (imp. & p. p.) of Brave

Braving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brave

Brave (v. t.) To encounter with courage and fortitude; to set at defiance; to defy; to dare.

Brave (v. t.) To adorn; to make fine or showy.

Bravely (adv.) In a brave manner; courageously; gallantly; valiantly; splendidly; nobly.

Bravely (adv.) Finely; gaudily; gayly; showily.

Bravely (adv.) Well; thrivingly; prosperously.

Braveness (n.) The quality of state or being brave.

Bravery (n.) The quality of being brave; fearless; intrepidity.

Bravery (n.) The act of braving; defiance; bravado.

Bravery (n.) Splendor; magnificence; showy appearance; ostentation; fine dress.

Bravery (n.) A showy person; a fine gentleman; a beau.

Braving (n.) A bravado; a boast.

Bravingly (adv.) In a defiant manner.

Bravoes (pl. ) of Bravo

Bravo (a.) A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; a professional assassin or murderer.

Bravo (interj.) Well done! excellent! an exclamation expressive of applause.

Bravura (n.) A florid, brilliant style of music, written for effect, to show the range and flexibility of a singer's voice, or the technical force and skill of a performer; virtuoso music.

Brawled (imp. & p. p.) of Brawl

Brawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brawl

Brawl (v. i.) To quarrel noisily and outrageously.

Brawl (v. i.) To complain loudly; to scold.

Brawl (v. i.) To make a loud confused noise, as the water of a rapid stream running over stones.

Brawl (n.) A noisy quarrel; loud, angry contention; a wrangle; a tumult; as, a drunken brawl.

Brawler (n.) One that brawls; wrangler.

Brawling (a.) Quarreling; quarrelsome; noisy.

Brawling (a.) Making a loud confused noise. See Brawl, v. i., 3.

Brawlingly (adv.) In a brawling manner.

Brawn (n.) A muscle; flesh.

Brawn (n.) Full, strong muscles, esp. of the arm or leg, muscular strength; a protuberant muscular part of the body; sometimes, the arm.

Brawn (n.) The flesh of a boar; also, the salted and prepared flesh of a boar.

Brawn (n.) A boar.

Brawned (a.) Brawny; strong; muscular.

Brawner (n.) A boor killed for the table.

Brawniness (n.) The quality or state of being brawny.

Brawny (a.) Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong.

Braxy (n.) A disease of sheep. The term is variously applied in different localities.

Braxy (n.) A diseased sheep, or its mutton.

Brayed (imp. & p. p.) of Bray

Braying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bray

Bray (v. t.) To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine.

Bray (v. i.) To utter a loud, harsh cry, as an ass.

Bray (v. i.) To make a harsh, grating, or discordant noise.

Bray (v. t.) To make or utter with a loud, discordant, or harsh and grating sound.

Bray (n.) The harsh cry of an ass; also, any harsh, grating, or discordant sound.

Bray (n.) A bank; the slope of a hill; a hill. See Brae, which is now the usual spelling.

Brayer (n.) An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing.

Brayer (n.) One that brays like an ass.

Braying (a.) Making a harsh noise; blaring.

Brazed (imp. & p. p.) of Braze

Brazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Braze

Braze (v. i.) To solder with hard solder, esp. with an alloy of copper and zinc; as, to braze the seams of a copper pipe.

Braze (v. i.) To harden.

Braze (v. t.) To cover or ornament with brass.

Brazen (a.) Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, brass.

Brazen (a.) Sounding harsh and loud, like resounding brass.

Brazen (a.) Impudent; immodest; shameless; having a front like brass; as, a brazen countenance.

Brazened (imp. & p. p.) of Brazen

Brazening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brazen

Brazen (v. t.) To carry through impudently or shamelessly; as, to brazen the matter through.

Brazen-browed (a.) Shamelessly impudent.

Brazenface (n.) An impudent or shameless person.

Brazenfaced (a.) Impudent; shameless.

Brazenly (adv.) In a bold, impudent manner.

Brazenness (n.) The quality or state of being brazen.

Brazier (n.) Same as Brasier.

Braziletto (n.) See Brazil wood.

Brazilian (a.) Of or pertaining to Brazil.

Brazilian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Brazil.

Brazilin (n.) A substance contained in both Brazil wood and Sapan wood, from which it is extracted as a yellow crystalline substance which is white when pure. It is colored intensely red by alkalies.

Brazil nut () An oily, three-sided nut, the seed of the Bertholletia excelsa; the cream nut.

Brazil wood () The wood of the oriental Caesalpinia Sapan; -- so called before the discovery of America.

Brazil wood () A very heavy wood of a reddish color, imported from Brazil and other tropical countries, for cabinet-work, and for dyeing. The best is the heartwood of Caesalpinia echinata, a leguminous tree; but other trees also yield it. An inferior sort comes from Jamaica, the timber of C. Braziliensis and C. crista. This is often distinguished as Braziletto , but the better kind is also frequently so named.

Breach (n.) The act of breaking, in a figurative sense.

Breach (n.) Specifically: A breaking or infraction of a law, or of any obligation or tie; violation; non-fulfillment; as, a breach of contract; a breach of promise.

Breach (n.) A gap or opening made made by breaking or battering, as in a wall or fortification; the space between the parts of a solid body rent by violence; a break; a rupture.

Breach (n.) A breaking of waters, as over a vessel; the waters themselves; surge; surf.

Breach (n.) A breaking up of amicable relations; rupture.

Breach (n.) A bruise; a wound.

Breach (n.) A hernia; a rupture.

Breach (n.) A breaking out upon; an assault.

Breached (imp. & p. p.) of Breach

Breaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breach

Breach (v. t.) To make a breach or opening in; as, to breach the walls of a city.

Breach (v. i.) To break the water, as by leaping out; -- said of a whale.

Breachy (a.) Apt to break fences or to break out of pasture; unruly; as, breachy cattle.

Bread (a.) To spread.

Bread (n.) An article of food made from flour or meal by moistening, kneading, and baking.

Bread (n.) Food; sustenance; support of life, in general.

Bread (v. t.) To cover with bread crumbs, preparatory to cooking; as, breaded cutlets.

Breadbasket (n.) The stomach.

Breadcorn () Corn of grain of which bread is made, as wheat, rye, etc.

Breaded (a.) Braided

Breaden (a.) Made of bread.

Breadfruit (n.) The fruit of a tree (Artocarpus incisa) found in the islands of the Pacific, esp. the South Sea islands. It is of a roundish form, from four to six or seven inches in diameter, and, when baked, somewhat resembles bread, and is eaten as food, whence the name.

Breadfruit (n.) The tree itself, which is one of considerable size, with large, lobed leaves. Cloth is made from the bark, and the timber is used for many purposes. Called also breadfruit tree and bread tree.

Breadless (a.) Without bread; destitute of food.

Breadroot (n.) The root of a leguminous plant (Psoralea esculenta), found near the Rocky Mountains. It is usually oval in form, and abounds in farinaceous matter, affording sweet and palatable food.

Breadstuff (n.) Grain, flour, or meal of which bread is made.

Breadth (a.) Distance from side to side of any surface or thing; measure across, or at right angles to the length; width.

Breadthless (a.) Without breadth.

Breadthways (ads.) Breadthwise.

Breadthwise (ads.) In the direction of the breadth.

Breadthwinner (n.) The member of a family whose labor supplies the food of the family; one who works for his living.

broke (imp.) of Break

Brake () of Break

Broken (p. p.) of Break

Broke () of Break

Breaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Break

Break (v. t.) To strain apart; to sever by fracture; to divide with violence; as, to break a rope or chain; to break a seal; to break an axle; to break rocks or coal; to break a lock.

Break (v. t.) To lay open as by breaking; to divide; as, to break a package of goods.

Break (v. t.) To lay open, as a purpose; to disclose, divulge, or communicate.

Break (v. t.) To infringe or violate, as an obligation, law, or promise.

Break (v. t.) To interrupt; to destroy the continuity of; to dissolve or terminate; as, to break silence; to break one's sleep; to break one's journey.

Break (v. t.) To destroy the completeness of; to remove a part from; as, to break a set.

Break (v. t.) To destroy the arrangement of; to throw into disorder; to pierce; as, the cavalry were not able to break the British squares.

Break (v. t.) To shatter to pieces; to reduce to fragments.

Break (v. t.) To exchange for other money or currency of smaller denomination; as, to break a five dollar bill.

Break (v. t.) To destroy the strength, firmness, or consistency of; as, to break flax.

Break (v. t.) To weaken or impair, as health, spirit, or mind.

Break (v. t.) To diminish the force of; to lessen the shock of, as a fall or blow.

Break (v. t.) To impart, as news or information; to broach; -- with to, and often with a modified word implying some reserve; as, to break the news gently to the widow; to break a purpose cautiously to a friend.

Break (v. t.) To tame; to reduce to subjection; to make tractable; to discipline; as, to break a horse to the harness or saddle.

Break (v. t.) To destroy the financial credit of; to make bankrupt; to ruin.

Break (v. t.) To destroy the official character and standing of; to cashier; to dismiss.

Break (v. i.) To come apart or divide into two or more pieces, usually with suddenness and violence; to part; to burst asunder.

Break (v. i.) To open spontaneously, or by pressure from within, as a bubble, a tumor, a seed vessel, a bag.

Break (v. i.) To burst forth; to make its way; to come to view; to appear; to dawn.

Break (v. i.) To burst forth violently, as a storm.

Break (v. i.) To open up; to be scattered; to be dissipated; as, the clouds are breaking.

Break (v. i.) To become weakened in constitution or faculties; to lose health or strength.

Break (v. i.) To be crushed, or overwhelmed with sorrow or grief; as, my heart is breaking.

Break (v. i.) To fall in business; to become bankrupt.

Break (v. i.) To make an abrupt or sudden change; to change the gait; as, to break into a run or gallop.

Break (v. i.) To fail in musical quality; as, a singer's voice breaks when it is strained beyond its compass and a tone or note is not completed, but degenerates into an unmusical sound instead. Also, to change in tone, as a boy's voice at puberty.

Break (v. i.) To fall out; to terminate friendship.

Break (v. t.) An opening made by fracture or disruption.

Break (v. t.) An interruption of continuity; change of direction; as, a break in a wall; a break in the deck of a ship.

Break (v. t.) A projection or recess from the face of a building.

Break (v. t.) An opening or displacement in the circuit, interrupting the electrical current.

Break (v. t.) An interruption; a pause; as, a break in friendship; a break in the conversation.

Break (v. t.) An interruption in continuity in writing or printing, as where there is an omission, an unfilled line, etc.

Break (v. t.) The first appearing, as of light in the morning; the dawn; as, the break of day; the break of dawn.

Break (v. t.) A large four-wheeled carriage, having a straight body and calash top, with the driver's seat in front and the footman's behind.

Break (v. t.) A device for checking motion, or for measuring friction. See Brake, n. 9 & 10.

Break (n.) See Commutator.

Breakable (a.) Capable of being broken.

Breakage (n.) The act of breaking; a break; a breaking; also, articles broken.

Breakage (n.) An allowance or compensation for things broken accidentally, as in transportation or use.

Breakbone fever () See Dengue.

Break-circuit (n.) A key or other device for breaking an electrical circuit.

Breakdown (n.) The act or result of breaking down, as of a carriage; downfall.

Breakdown (n.) A noisy, rapid, shuffling dance engaged in competitively by a number of persons or pairs in succession, as among the colored people of the Southern United States, and so called, perhaps, because the exercise is continued until most of those who take part in it break down.

Breakdown (n.) Any rude, noisy dance performed by shuffling the feet, usually by one person at a time.

Breaker (n.) One who, or that which, breaks.

Breaker (n.) Specifically: A machine for breaking rocks, or for breaking coal at the mines; also, the building in which such a machine is placed.

Breaker (n.) A small water cask.

Breaker (n.) A wave breaking into foam against the shore, or against a sand bank, or a rock or reef near the surface.

Breakfast (n.) The first meal in the day, or that which is eaten at the first meal.

Breakfast (n.) A meal after fasting, or food in general.

breakfasted (imp. & p. p.) of Breakfast

Breakfasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breakfast

Breakfast (v. i.) To break one's fast in the morning; too eat the first meal in the day.

Breakfast (v. t.) To furnish with breakfast.

Breakman (n.) See Brakeman.

Breakneck (n.) A fall that breaks the neck.

Breakneck (n.) A steep place endangering the neck.

Breakneck (a.) Producing danger of a broken neck; as, breakneck speed.

Break-up (n.) Disruption; a separation and dispersion of the parts or members; as, a break-up of an assembly or dinner party; a break-up of the government.

Breakwater (n.) Any structure or contrivance, as a mole, or a wall at the mouth of a harbor, to break the force of waves, and afford protection from their violence.

Bream (n.) A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis, little valued as food. Several species are known.

Bream (n.) An American fresh-water fish, of various species of Pomotis and allied genera, which are also called sunfishes and pondfishes. See Pondfish.

Bream (n.) A marine sparoid fish of the genus Pagellus, and allied genera. See Sea Bream.

Breamed (imp. & p. p.) of Bream

Breaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bream

Bream (v. t.) To clean, as a ship's bottom of adherent shells, seaweed, etc., by the application of fire and scraping.

Breast (n.) The fore part of the body, between the neck and the belly; the chest; as, the breast of a man or of a horse.

Breast (n.) Either one of the protuberant glands, situated on the front of the chest or thorax in the female of man and of some other mammalia, in which milk is secreted for the nourishment of the young; a mamma; a teat.

Breast (n.) Anything resembling the human breast, or bosom; the front or forward part of anything; as, a chimney breast; a plow breast; the breast of a hill.

Breast (n.) The face of a coal working.

Breast (n.) The front of a furnace.

Breast (n.) The seat of consciousness; the repository of thought and self-consciousness, or of secrets; the seat of the affections and passions; the heart.

Breast (n.) The power of singing; a musical voice; -- so called, probably, from the connection of the voice with the lungs, which lie within the breast.

Breasted (imp. & p. p.) of Breast

Breasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breast

Breast (v. t.) To meet, with the breast; to struggle with or oppose manfully; as, to breast the storm or waves.

Breastband (n.) A band for the breast. Specifically: (Naut.) A band of canvas, or a rope, fastened at both ends to the rigging, to support the man who heaves the lead in sounding.

Breastbeam (n.) The front transverse beam of a locomotive.

Breastbone (n.) The bone of the breast; the sternum.

Breast-deep (a.) Deep as from the breast to the feet; as high as the breast.

Breasted (a.) Having a breast; -- used in composition with qualifying words, in either a literal or a metaphorical sense; as, a single-breasted coat.

Breastfast (n.) A large rope to fasten the midship part of a ship to a wharf, or to another vessel.

Breastheight (n.) The interior slope of a fortification, against which the garrison lean in firing.

Breast-high (a.) High as the breast.

Breasthook (n.) A thick piece of timber in the form of a knee, placed across the stem of a ship to strengthen the fore part and unite the bows on each side.

Breasting (n.) The curved channel in which a breast wheel turns. It is closely adapted to the curve of the wheel through about a quarter of its circumference, and prevents the escape of the water until it has spent its force upon the wheel. See Breast wheel.

Breastknot (n.) A knot of ribbons worn on the breast.

Breastpin (n.) A pin worn on the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a brooch.

Breastplate (n.) A plate of metal covering the breast as defensive armor.

Breastplate (n.) A piece against which the workman presses his breast in operating a breast drill, or other similar tool.

Breastplate (n.) A strap that runs across a horse's breast.

Breastplate (n.) A part of the vestment of the high priest, worn upon the front of the ephod. It was a double piece of richly embroidered stuff, a span square, set with twelve precious stones, on which were engraved the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. See Ephod.

Breastplow (n.) Alt. of Breastplough

Breastplough (n.) A kind of plow, driven by the breast of the workman; -- used to cut or pare turf.

Breastrail (n.) The upper rail of any parapet of ordinary height, as of a balcony; the railing of a quarter-deck, etc.

Breastrope (n.) See Breastband.

Breastsummer (n.) A summer or girder extending across a building flush with, and supporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a long lintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows.

Breastwheel (n.) A water wheel, on which the stream of water strikes neither so high as in the overshot wheel, nor so low as in the undershot, but generally at about half the height of the wheel, being kept in contact with it by the breasting. The water acts on the float boards partly by impulse, partly by its weight.

Breastwork (n.) A defensive work of moderate height, hastily thrown up, of earth or other material.

Breastwork (n.) A railing on the quarter-deck and forecastle.

Breath (n.) The air inhaled and exhaled in respiration; air which, in the process of respiration, has parted with oxygen and has received carbonic acid, aqueous vapor, warmth, etc.

Breath (n.) The act of breathing naturally or freely; the power or capacity to breathe freely; as, I am out of breath.

Breath (n.) The power of respiration, and hence, life.

Breath (n.) Time to breathe; respite; pause.

Breath (n.) A single respiration, or the time of making it; a single act; an instant.

Breath (n.) Fig.: That which gives or strengthens life.

Breath (n.) A single word; the slightest effort; a trifle.

Breath (n.) A very slight breeze; air in gentle motion.

Breath (n.) Fragrance; exhalation; odor; perfume.

Breath (n.) Gentle exercise, causing a quicker respiration.

Breathable (a.) Such as can be breathed.

Breathableness (n.) State of being breathable.

Breathed (imp. & p. p.) of Breathe

Breathing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breathe

Breathe (v. i.) To respire; to inhale and exhale air; hence;, to live.

Breathe (v. i.) To take breath; to rest from action.

Breathe (v. i.) To pass like breath; noiselessly or gently; to exhale; to emanate; to blow gently.

Breathe (v. t.) To inhale and exhale in the process of respiration; to respire.

Breathe (v. t.) To inject by breathing; to infuse; -- with into.

Breathe (v. t.) To emit or utter by the breath; to utter softly; to whisper; as, to breathe a vow.

Breathe (v. t.) To exhale; to emit, as breath; as, the flowers breathe odors or perfumes.

Breathe (v. t.) To express; to manifest; to give forth.

Breathe (v. t.) To act upon by the breath; to cause to sound by breathing.

Breathe (v. t.) To promote free respiration in; to exercise.

Breathe (v. t.) To suffer to take breath, or recover the natural breathing; to rest; as, to breathe a horse.

Breathe (v. t.) To put out of breath; to exhaust.

Breathe (v. t.) To utter without vocality, as the nonvocal consonants.

Breather (n.) One who breathes. Hence: (a) One who lives.(b) One who utters. (c) One who animates or inspires.

Breather (n.) That which puts one out of breath, as violent exercise.

Breathful (a.) Full of breath; full of odor; fragrant.

Breathing (n.) Respiration; the act of inhaling and exhaling air.

Breathing (n.) Air in gentle motion.

Breathing (n.) Any gentle influence or operation; inspiration; as, the breathings of the Spirit.

Breathing (n.) Aspiration; secret prayer.

Breathing (n.) Exercising; promotion of respiration.

Breathing (n.) Utterance; communication or publicity by words.

Breathing (n.) Breathing place; vent.

Breathing (n.) Stop; pause; delay.

Breathing (n.) Also, in a wider sense, the sound caused by the friction of the outgoing breath in the throat, mouth, etc., when the glottis is wide open; aspiration; the sound expressed by the letter h.

Breathing (n.) A mark to indicate aspiration or its absence. See Rough breathing, Smooth breathing, below.

Breathless (a.) Spent with labor or violent action; out of breath.

Breathless (a.) Not breathing; holding the breath, on account of fear, expectation, or intense interest; attended with a holding of the breath; as, breathless attention.

Breathless (a.) Dead; as, a breathless body.

Breathlessly (adv.) In a breathless manner.

Breathlessness (n.) The state of being breathless or out of breath.

Breccia (n.) A rock composed of angular fragments either of the same mineral or of different minerals, etc., united by a cement, and commonly presenting a variety of colors.

Brecciated (a.) Consisting of angular fragments cemented together; resembling breccia in appearance.

Bred () imp. & p. p. of Breed.

Brede (n.) Alt. of Breede

Breede (n.) Breadth.

Brede (n.) A braid.

Breech (n.) The lower part of the body behind; the buttocks.

Breech (n.) Breeches.

Breech (n.) The hinder part of anything; esp., the part of a cannon, or other firearm, behind the chamber.

Breech (n.) The external angle of knee timber, the inside of which is called the throat.

Breeched (imp. & p. p.) of Breech

Breeching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breech

Breech (v. t.) To put into, or clothe with, breeches.

Breech (v. t.) To cover as with breeches.

Breech (v. t.) To fit or furnish with a breech; as, to breech a gun.

Breech (v. t.) To whip on the breech.

Breech (v. t.) To fasten with breeching.

Breechblock (n.) The movable piece which closes the breech of a breech-loading firearm, and resists the backward force of the discharge. It is withdrawn for the insertion of a cartridge, and closed again before the gun is fired.

Breechcloth (n.) A cloth worn around the breech.

Breeches (n. pl.) A garment worn by men, covering the hips and thighs; smallclothes.

Breeches (n. pl.) Trousers; pantaloons.

Breeching (n.) A whipping on the breech, or the act of whipping on the breech.

Breeching (n.) That part of a harness which passes round the breech of a horse, enabling him to hold back a vehicle.

Breeching (n.) A strong rope rove through the cascabel of a cannon and secured to ringbolts in the ship's side, to limit the recoil of the gun when it is discharged.

Breeching (n.) The sheet iron casing at the end of boilers to convey the smoke from the flues to the smokestack.

Breechloader (n.) A firearm which receives its load at the breech.

Breech-loading (a.) Receiving the charge at the breech instead of at the muzzle.

Breech pin () Alt. of Breech screw

Breech screw () A strong iron or steel plug screwed into the breech of a musket or other firearm, to close the bottom of the bore.

Breech sight () A device attached to the breech of a firearm, to guide the eye, in conjunction with the front sight, in taking aim.

Bred (imp. & p. p.) of Breed

Breeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breed

Breed (v. t.) To produce as offspring; to bring forth; to bear; to procreate; to generate; to beget; to hatch.

Breed (v. t.) To take care of in infancy, and through the age of youth; to bring up; to nurse and foster.

Breed (v. t.) To educate; to instruct; to form by education; to train; -- sometimes followed by up.

Breed (v. t.) To engender; to cause; to occasion; to originate; to produce; as, to breed a storm; to breed disease.

Breed (v. t.) To give birth to; to be the native place of; as, a pond breeds fish; a northern country breeds stout men.

Breed (v. t.) To raise, as any kind of stock.

Breed (v. t.) To produce or obtain by any natural process.

Breed (v. i.) To bear and nourish young; to reproduce or multiply itself; to be pregnant.

Breed (v. i.) To be formed in the parent or dam; to be generated, or to grow, as young before birth.

Breed (v. i.) To have birth; to be produced or multiplied.

Breed (v. i.) To raise a breed; to get progeny.

Breed (n.) A race or variety of men or other animals (or of plants), perpetuating its special or distinctive characteristics by inheritance.

Breed (n.) Class; sort; kind; -- of men, things, or qualities.

Breed (n.) A number produced at once; a brood.

Breedbate (n.) One who breeds or originates quarrels.

Breeder (n.) One who, or that which, breeds, produces, brings up, etc.

Breeder (n.) A cause.

Breeding (n.) The act or process of generating or bearing.

Breeding (n.) The raising or improving of any kind of domestic animals; as, farmers should pay attention to breeding.

Breeding (n.) Nurture; education; formation of manners.

Breeding (n.) Deportment or behavior in the external offices and decorums of social life; manners; knowledge of, or training in, the ceremonies, or polite observances of society.

Breeding (n.) Descent; pedigree; extraction.

Breeze (n.) Alt. of Breeze fly

Breeze fly (n.) A fly of various species, of the family Tabanidae, noted for buzzing about animals, and tormenting them by sucking their blood; -- called also horsefly, and gadfly. They are among the largest of two-winged or dipterous insects. The name is also given to different species of botflies.

Breeze (n.) A light, gentle wind; a fresh, soft-blowing wind.

Breeze (n.) An excited or ruffed state of feeling; a flurry of excitement; a disturbance; a quarrel; as, the discovery produced a breeze.

Breeze (n.) Refuse left in the process of making coke or burning charcoal.

Breeze (n.) Refuse coal, coal ashes, and cinders, used in the burning of bricks.

Breeze (v. i.) To blow gently.

Breezeless (a.) Motionless; destitute of breezes.

Breeziness (n.) State of being breezy.

Breezy (a.) Characterized by, or having, breezes; airy.

Breezy (a.) Fresh; brisk; full of life.

Bregma (n.) The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures of the skull.

Bregmatic (a.) Pertaining to the bregma.

Brehon (n.) An ancient Irish or Scotch judge.

Breme (a.) Fierce; sharp; severe; cruel.

Breme (a.) Famous; renowned; well known.

Brent (imp. & p. p.) of Brenne

Brenning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brenne

Bren (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Brenne

Brenne (v. t. & i.) To burn.

Bren (n.) Bran.

Brennage (n.) A tribute which tenants paid to their lord, in lieu of bran, which they were obliged to furnish for his hounds.

Brenningly (adv.) Burningly; ardently.

Brent (a.) Alt. of Brant

Brant (a.) Steep; high.

Brant (a.) Smooth; unwrinkled.

Brent (imp. & p. p.) Burnt.

Brent (n.) A brant. See Brant.

Brequet chain () A watch-guard.

Brere (n.) A brier.

Brest (3d sing.pr.) for Bursteth.

Brest (n.) Alt. of Breast

Breast (n.) A torus.

Brast (imp.) of Breste

Brusten (p. p.) of Breste

Borsten () of Breste

Bursten () of Breste

Breste (v. t. & i.) To burst.

Brestsummer (n.) See Breastsummer.

Bret (n.) See Birt.

Bretful (a.) Brimful.

Brethren (n.) pl. of Brother.

Breton (a.) Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France.

Breton (n.) A native or inhabitant of Brittany, or Bretagne, in France; also, the ancient language of Brittany; Armorican.

Brett (n.) Same as Britzska.

Brettices (pl. ) of Brettice

Brettice (n.) The wooden boarding used in supporting the roofs and walls of coal mines. See Brattice.

Bretwalda (n.) The official title applied to that one of the Anglo-Saxon chieftains who was chosen by the other chiefs to lead them in their warfare against the British tribes.

Bretzel (n.) See Pretzel.

Breve (n.) A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves or four minims. When dotted, it is equal to three semibreves. It was formerly of a square figure (as thus: / ), but is now made oval, with a line perpendicular to the staff on each of its sides; -- formerly much used for choir service.

Breve (n.) Any writ or precept under seal, issued out of any court.

Breve (n.) A curved mark [/] used commonly to indicate the short quantity of a vowel.

Breve (n.) The great ant thrush of Sumatra (Pitta gigas), which has a very short tail.

Brevet (n.) A warrant from the government, granting a privilege, title, or dignity. [French usage].

Brevet (n.) A commission giving an officer higher rank than that for which he receives pay; an honorary promotion of an officer.

Brevetted (imp. & p. p.) of Brevet

Brevetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brevet

Brevet (v. t.) To confer rank upon by brevet.

Brevet (a.) Taking or conferring rank by brevet; as, a brevet colonel; a brevet commission.

Brevetcies (pl. ) of Brevetcy

Brevetcy (n.) The rank or condition of a brevet officer.

Breviaries (pl. ) of Breviary

Breviary (n.) An abridgment; a compend; an epitome; a brief account or summary.

Breviary (n.) A book containing the daily public or canonical prayers of the Roman Catholic or of the Greek Church for the seven canonical hours, namely, matins and lauds, the first, third, sixth, and ninth hours, vespers, and compline; -- distinguished from the missal.

Breviate (n.) A short compend; a summary; a brief statement.

Breviate (n.) A lawyer's brief.

Breviate (v. t.) To abbreviate.

Breviature (n.) An abbreviature; an abbreviation.

Brevier (n.) A size of type between bourgeois and minion.

Breviloquence (n.) A brief and pertinent mode of speaking.

Breviped (a.) Having short legs.

Breviped (n.) A breviped bird.

Brevipen (n.) A brevipennate bird.

Brevipennate (a.) Short-winged; -- applied to birds which can not fly, owing to their short wings, as the ostrich, cassowary, and emu.

Brevirostral (a.) Alt. of Brevirostrate

Brevirostrate (a.) Short-billed; having a short beak.

Brevities (pl. ) of Brevity

Brevity (n.) Shortness of duration; briefness of time; as, the brevity of human life.

Brevity (n.) Contraction into few words; conciseness.

Brewed (imp. & p. p.) of Brew

Brewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brew

Brew (v. t.) To boil or seethe; to cook.

Brew (v. t.) To prepare, as beer or other liquor, from malt and hops, or from other materials, by steeping, boiling, and fermentation.

Brew (v. t.) To prepare by steeping and mingling; to concoct.

Brew (v. t.) To foment or prepare, as by brewing; to contrive; to plot; to concoct; to hatch; as, to brew mischief.

Brew (v. i.) To attend to the business, or go through the processes, of brewing or making beer.

Brew (v. i.) To be in a state of preparation; to be mixing, forming, or gathering; as, a storm brews in the west.

Brew (n.) The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed.

Brewage (n.) Malt liquor; drink brewed.

Brewer (n.) One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors.

Brewery (n.) A brewhouse; the building and apparatus where brewing is carried on.

Brewhouse (n.) A house or building appropriated to brewing; a brewery.

Brewing (n.) The act or process of preparing liquors which are brewed, as beer and ale.

Brewing (n.) The quantity brewed at once.

Brewing (n.) A mixing together.

Brewing (n.) A gathering or forming of a storm or squall, indicated by thick, dark clouds.

Brewis (n.) Broth or pottage.

Brewis (n.) Bread soaked in broth, drippings of roast meat, milk, or water and butter.

Brewsterite (n.) A rare zeolitic mineral occurring in white monoclinic crystals with pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, baryta, and strontia.

Brezilin (n.) See Brazilin.

Briar (n.) Same as Brier.

Briarean (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, Briareus, a giant fabled to have a hundred hands; hence, hundred-handed or many-handed.

Bribable (a.) Capable of being bribed.

Bribe (n.) A gift begged; a present.

Bribe (n.) A price, reward, gift, or favor bestowed or promised with a view to prevent the judgment or corrupt the conduct of a judge, witness, voter, or other person in a position of trust.

Bribe (n.) That which seduces; seduction; allurement.

Bribed (imp. & p. p.) of Bribe

Bribing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bribe

Bribe (v. t.) To rob or steal.

Bribe (v. t.) To give or promise a reward or consideration to (a judge, juror, legislator, voter, or other person in a position of trust) with a view to prevent the judgment or corrupt the conduct; to induce or influence by a bribe; to give a bribe to.

Bribe (v. t.) To gain by a bribe; of induce as by a bribe.

Bribe (v. i.) To commit robbery or theft.

Bribe (v. i.) To give a bribe to a person; to pervert the judgment or corrupt the action of a person in a position of trust, by some gift or promise.

Bribeless (a.) Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes.

Briber (n.) A thief.

Briber (n.) One who bribes, or pays for corrupt practices.

Briber (n.) That which bribes; a bribe.

Briberies (pl. ) of Bribery

Bribery (n.) Robbery; extortion.

Bribery (n.) The act or practice of giving or taking bribes; the act of influencing the official or political action of another by corrupt inducements.

Bric-a brac (n.) Miscellaneous curiosities and works of decorative art, considered collectively.

Brick (n.) A block or clay tempered with water, sand, etc., molded into a regular form, usually rectangular, and sun-dried, or burnt in a kiln, or in a heap or stack called a clamp.

Brick (n.) Bricks, collectively, as designating that kind of material; as, a load of brick; a thousand of brick.

Brick (n.) Any oblong rectangular mass; as, a brick of maple sugar; a penny brick (of bread).

Brick (n.) A good fellow; a merry person; as, you 're a brick.

Bricked (imp. & p. p.) of Brick

Bricking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brick

Brick (v. t.) To lay or pave with bricks; to surround, line, or construct with bricks.

Brick (v. t.) To imitate or counterfeit a brick wall on, as by smearing plaster with red ocher, making the joints with an edge tool, and pointing them.

Brickbat (n.) A piece or fragment of a brick. See Bat, 4.

Brickkiln (n.) A kiln, or furnace, in which bricks are baked or burnt; or a pile of green bricks, laid loose, with arches underneath to receive the wood or fuel for burning them.

Bricklayer (n.) One whose occupation is to build with bricks.

Bricklaying (n.) The art of building with bricks, or of uniting them by cement or mortar into various forms; the act or occupation of laying bricks.

Brickle (a.) Brittle; easily broken.

Brickleness (n.) Brittleness.

Brickmaker (n.) One whose occupation is to make bricks.

Brickwork (n.) Anything made of bricks.

Brickwork (n.) The act of building with or laying bricks.

Bricky (a.) Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brick dust.

Brickyard (n.) A place where bricks are made, especially an inclosed place.

Bricole (n.) A kind of traces with hooks and rings, with which men drag and maneuver guns where horses can not be used.

Brid (n.) A bird.

Bridal (n.) Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridal ornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber.

Bridal (n.) A nuptial festival or ceremony; a marriage.

Bridalty (n.) Celebration of the nuptial feast.

Bride (n.) A woman newly married, or about to be married.

Bride (n.) Fig.: An object ardently loved.

Bride (v. t.) To make a bride of.

Bride-ale (n.) A rustic wedding feast; a bridal. See Ale.

Bridebed (n.) The marriage bed.

Bridecake (n.) Rich or highly ornamented cake, to be distributed to the guests at a wedding, or sent to friends after the wedding.

Bridechamber (n.) The nuptial apartment.

Bridegroom (n.) A man newly married, or just about to be married.

Brideknot (n.) A knot of ribbons worn by a guest at a wedding; a wedding favor.

Bridemaid (n.) Alt. of Brideman

Brideman (n.) See Bridesmaid, Bridesman.

Bridesmaid (n.) A female friend who attends on a bride at her wedding.

Bridesmen (pl. ) of Bridesman

Bridesman (n.) A male friend who attends upon a bridegroom and bride at their marriage; the best man.

Bridestake (n.) A stake or post set in the ground, for guests at a wedding to dance round.

Bridewell (n.) A house of correction for the confinement of disorderly persons; -- so called from a hospital built in 1553 near St. Bride's (or Bridget's) well, in London, which was subsequently a penal workhouse.

Bridge (n.) A structure, usually of wood, stone, brick, or iron, erected over a river or other water course, or over a chasm, railroad, etc., to make a passageway from one bank to the other.

Bridge (n.) Anything supported at the ends, which serves to keep some other thing from resting upon the object spanned, as in engraving, watchmaking, etc., or which forms a platform or staging over which something passes or is conveyed.

Bridge (n.) The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of a violin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit their vibrations to the body of the instrument.

Bridge (n.) A device to measure the resistance of a wire or other conductor forming part of an electric circuit.

Bridge (n.) A low wall or vertical partition in the fire chamber of a furnace, for deflecting flame, etc.; -- usually called a bridge wall.

Bridged (imp. & p. p.) of Bridge

Bridging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bridge

Bridge (v. t.) To build a bridge or bridges on or over; as, to bridge a river.

Bridge (v. t.) To open or make a passage, as by a bridge.

Bridge (v. t.) To find a way of getting over, as a difficulty; -- generally with over.

Bridgeboard (n.) A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps of wooden stairs are fastened.

Bridgeboard (n.) A board or plank used as a bridge.

Bridgehead (n.) A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearest the enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge, and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tete-de-pont.

Bridgeless (a.) Having no bridge; not bridged.

Bridgepot (n.) The adjustable socket, or step, of a millstone spindle.

Bridgetree (n.) The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in a grinding mill.

Bridge-ward (n.) A bridge keeper; a warden or a guard for a bridge.

Bridge-ward (n.) The principal ward of a key.

Bridgeing (n.) The system of bracing used between floor or other timbers to distribute the weight.

Bridgey (a.) Full of bridges.

Bridle (n.) The head gear with which a horse is governed and restrained, consisting of a headstall, a bit, and reins, with other appendages.

Bridle (n.) A restraint; a curb; a check.

Bridle (n.) The piece in the interior of a gun lock, which holds in place the tumbler, sear, etc.

Bridle (n.) A span of rope, line, or chain made fast as both ends, so that another rope, line, or chain may be attached to its middle.

Bridle (n.) A mooring hawser.

Bridled (imp. & p. p.) of Bridle

Bridling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bridle

Bridle (v. t.) To put a bridle upon; to equip with a bridle; as, to bridle a horse.

Bridle (v. t.) To restrain, guide, or govern, with, or as with, a bridle; to check, curb, or control; as, to bridle the passions; to bridle a muse.

Bridle (v. i.) To hold up the head, and draw in the chin, as an expression of pride, scorn, or resentment; to assume a lofty manner; -- usually with up.

Bridle iron () A strong flat bar of iron, so bent as to support, as in a stirrup, one end of a floor timber, etc., where no sufficient bearing can be had; -- called also stirrup and hanger.

Bridler (n.) One who bridles; one who restrains and governs, as with a bridle.

Bridoon (n.) The snaffle and rein of a military bridle, which acts independently of the bit, at the pleasure of the rider. It is used in connection with a curb bit, which has its own rein.

Brief (a.) Short in duration.

Brief (a.) Concise; terse; succinct.

Brief (a.) Rife; common; prevalent.

Brief (adv.) Briefly.

Brief (adv.) Soon; quickly.

Brief (a.) A short concise writing or letter; a statement in few words.

Brief (a.) An epitome.

Brief (a.) An abridgment or concise statement of a client's case, made out for the instruction of counsel in a trial at law. This word is applied also to a statement of the heads or points of a law argument.

Brief (a.) A writ; a breve. See Breve, n., 2.

Brief (n.) A writ issuing from the chancery, directed to any judge ordinary, commanding and authorizing that judge to call a jury to inquire into the case, and upon their verdict to pronounce sentence.

Brief (n.) A letter patent, from proper authority, authorizing a collection or charitable contribution of money in churches, for any public or private purpose.

Brief (v. t.) To make an abstract or abridgment of; to shorten; as, to brief pleadings.

Briefless (a.) Having no brief; without clients; as, a briefless barrister.

Briefly (adv.) Concisely; in few words.

Briefman (n.) One who makes a brief.

Briefman (n.) A copier of a manuscript.

Briefness (n.) The quality of being brief; brevity; conciseness in discourse or writing.

Brier (n.) Alt. of Briar

Briar (n.) A plant with a slender woody stem bearing stout prickles; especially, species of Rosa, Rubus, and Smilax.

Briar (n.) Fig.: Anything sharp or unpleasant to the feelings.

Briered (a.) Set with briers.

Briery (a.) Full of briers; thorny.

Briery (n.) A place where briers grow.

Brig (n.) A bridge.

Brig (n.) A two-masted, square-rigged vessel.

Brigade (n.) A body of troops, whether cavalry, artillery, infantry, or mixed, consisting of two or more regiments, under the command of a brigadier general.

Brigade (n.) Any body of persons organized for acting or marching together under authority; as, a fire brigade.

Brigaded (imp. & p. p.) of Brigade

Brigading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brigade

Brigade (v. t.) To form into a brigade, or into brigades.

Brigadier general () An officer in rank next above a colonel, and below a major general. He commands a brigade, and is sometimes called, by a shortening of his title, simple a brigadier.

Brigand (n.) A light-armed, irregular foot soldier.

Brigand (n.) A lawless fellow who lives by plunder; one of a band of robbers; especially, one of a gang living in mountain retreats; a highwayman; a freebooter.

Brigandage (n.) Life and practice of brigands; highway robbery; plunder.

Brigandine (n.) A coast of armor for the body, consisting of scales or plates, sometimes overlapping each other, generally of metal, and sewed to linen or other material. It was worn in the Middle Ages.

Brigandish (a.) Like a brigand or freebooter; robberlike.

Brigandism (n.) Brigandage.

Brigantine (n.) A practical vessel.

Brigantine (n.) A two-masted, square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig in that she does not carry a square mainsail.

Brigantine (n.) See Brigandine.

Brigge (n.) A bridge.

Bright (v. i.) See Brite, v. i.

Bright (a.) Radiating or reflecting light; shedding or having much light; shining; luminous; not dark.

Bright (a.) Transmitting light; clear; transparent.

Bright (a.) Having qualities that render conspicuous or attractive, or that affect the mind as light does the eye; resplendent with charms; as, bright beauty.

Bright (a.) Having a clear, quick intellect; intelligent.

Bright (a.) Sparkling with wit; lively; vivacious; shedding cheerfulness and joy around; cheerful; cheery.

Bright (a.) Illustrious; glorious.

Bright (a.) Manifest to the mind, as light is to the eyes; clear; evident; plain.

Bright (a.) Of brilliant color; of lively hue or appearance.

Bright (n.) Splendor; brightness.

Bright (adv.) Brightly.

Brightened (imp. & p. p.) of Brighten

Brightening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brighten

Brighten (a.) To make bright or brighter; to make to shine; to increase the luster of; to give a brighter hue to.

Brighten (a.) To make illustrious, or more distinguished; to add luster or splendor to.

Brighten (a.) To improve or relieve by dispelling gloom or removing that which obscures and darkens; to shed light upon; to make cheerful; as, to brighten one's prospects.

Brighten (a.) To make acute or witty; to enliven.

Brighten (v. i.) To grow bright, or more bright; to become less dark or gloomy; to clear up; to become bright or cheerful.

Bright-harnessed (a.) Having glittering armor.

Brightly (adv.) Brilliantly; splendidly; with luster; as, brightly shining armor.

Brightly (adv.) With lively intelligence; intelligently.

Brightness (n.) The quality or state of being bright; splendor; luster; brilliancy; clearness.

Brightness (n.) Acuteness (of the faculties); sharpness 9wit.

Bright's disease () An affection of the kidneys, usually inflammatory in character, and distinguished by the occurrence of albumin and renal casts in the urine. Several varieties of Bright's disease are now recognized, differing in the part of the kidney involved, and in the intensity and course of the morbid process.

Brightsome (a.) Bright; clear; luminous; brilliant.

Brigose (n.) Contentious; quarrelsome.

Brigue (n.) A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel.

Brigue (n.) To contend for; to canvass; to solicit.

Brike (n.) A breach; ruin; downfall; peril.

Brill (n.) A fish allied to the turbot (Rhombus levis), much esteemed in England for food; -- called also bret, pearl, prill. See Bret.

Brillante (a.) In a gay, showy, and sparkling style.

Brillance (n.) Brilliancy.

Brillancy (n.) The quality of being brilliant; splendor; glitter; great brightness, whether in a literal or figurative sense.

Brilliant (p. pr.) Sparkling with luster; glittering; very bright; as, a brilliant star.

Brilliant (p. pr.) Distinguished by qualities which excite admiration; splendid; shining; as, brilliant talents.

Brilliant (a.) A diamond or other gem of the finest cut, formed into faces and facets, so as to reflect and refract the light, by which it is rendered more brilliant. It has at the middle, or top, a principal face, called the table, which is surrounded by a number of sloping facets forming a bizet; below, it has a small face or collet, parallel to the table, connected with the girdle by a pavilion of elongated facets. It is thus distinguished from the rose diamond, which is entirely covered with facets on the surface, and is flat below.

Brilliant (a.) The smallest size of type used in England printing.

Brilliant (a.) A kind of cotton goods, figured on the weaving.

Brilliantly (adv.) In a brilliant manner.

Brilliantness (n.) Brilliancy; splendor; glitter.

Brills (n. pl.) The hair on the eyelids of a horse.

Brim (n.) The rim, border, or upper edge of a cup, dish, or any hollow vessel used for holding anything.

Brim (n.) The edge or margin, as of a fountain, or of the water contained in it; the brink; border.

Brim (n.) The rim of a hat.

Brimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Brim

Brimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brim

Brim (v. i.) To be full to the brim.

Brim (v. t.) To fill to the brim, upper edge, or top.

Brim (a.) Fierce; sharp; cold. See Breme.

Brimful (a.) Full to the brim; completely full; ready to overflow.

Brimless (a.) Having no brim; as, brimless caps.

Brimmed (a.) Having a brim; -- usually in composition.

Brimmed (a.) Full to, or level with, the brim.

Brimmer (n.) A brimful bowl; a bumper.

Brimming (a.) Full to the brim; overflowing.

Brimstone (v. t.) Sulphur; See Sulphur.

Brimstone (a.) Made of, or pertaining to, brimstone; as, brimstone matches.

Brimstony (a.) Containing or resembling brimstone; sulphurous.

Brin (n.) One of the radiating sticks of a fan. The outermost are larger and longer, and are called panaches.

Brinded (a.) Of a gray or tawny color with streaks of darker hue; streaked; brindled.

Brindle (n.) The state of being brindled.

Brindle (n.) A brindled color; also, that which is brindled.

Brindle (a.) Brindled.

Brindled (a.) Having dark streaks or spots on a gray or tawny ground; brinded.

Brine (n.) Water saturated or strongly impregnated with salt; pickle; hence, any strong saline solution; also, the saline residue or strong mother liquor resulting from the evaporation of natural or artificial waters.

Brine (n.) The ocean; the water of an ocean, sea, or salt lake.

Brine (n.) Tears; -- so called from their saltness.

Brine (v. t.) To steep or saturate in brine.

Brine (v. t.) To sprinkle with salt or brine; as, to brine hay.

Brought (imp. & p. p.) of Bring

Bringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bring

Bring (v. t.) To convey to the place where the speaker is or is to be; to bear from a more distant to a nearer place; to fetch.

Bring (v. t.) To cause the accession or obtaining of; to procure; to make to come; to produce; to draw to.

Bring (v. t.) To convey; to move; to carry or conduct.

Bring (v. t.) To persuade; to induce; to draw; to lead; to guide.

Bring (v. t.) To produce in exchange; to sell for; to fetch; as, what does coal bring per ton?

Bringer (n.) One who brings.

Brininess (n.) The state or quality of being briny; saltness; brinishness.

Brinish (a.) Like brine; somewhat salt; saltish.

Brinishness (n.) State or quality of being brinish.

Brinjaree (n.) A rough-haired East Indian variety of the greyhound.

Brink (n.) The edge, margin, or border of a steep place, as of a precipice; a bank or edge, as of a river or pit; a verge; a border; as, the brink of a chasm. Also Fig.

Briny (a.) Of or pertaining to brine, or to the sea; partaking of the nature of brine; salt; as, a briny taste; the briny flood.

Briony (n.) See Bryony.

Brisk (a.) Full of liveliness and activity; characterized by quickness of motion or action; lively; spirited; quick.

Brisk (a.) Full of spirit of life; effervesc/ng, as liquors; sparkling; as, brick cider.

Bricked (imp. & p. p.) of Brisk

Bricking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brisk

Brisk (v. t. & i.) To make or become lively; to enliven; to animate; to take, or cause to take, an erect or bold attitude; -- usually with up.

Brisket (n.) That part of the breast of an animal which extends from the fore legs back beneath the ribs; also applied to the fore part of a horse, from the shoulders to the bottom of the chest.

Briskly (adv.) In a brisk manner; nimbly.

Briskness (n.) Liveliness; vigor in action; quickness; gayety; vivacity; effervescence.

Bristle (n.) A short, stiff, coarse hair, as on the back of swine.

Bristle (n.) A stiff, sharp, roundish hair.

Bristled (imp. & p. p.) of Bristle

Bristling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bristle

Bristle (v. t.) To erect the bristles of; to cause to stand up, as the bristles of an angry hog; -- sometimes with up.

Bristle (v. t.) To fix a bristle to; as, to bristle a thread.

Bristle (v. i.) To rise or stand erect, like bristles.

Bristle (v. i.) To appear as if covered with bristles; to have standing, thick and erect, like bristles.

Bristle (v. i.) To show defiance or indignation.

Bristle-pointed (a.) Terminating in a very fine, sharp point, as some leaves.

Bristle-shaped (a.) Resembling a bristle in form; as, a bristle-shaped leaf.

Bristletail (n.) An insect of the genera Lepisma, Campodea, etc., belonging to the Thysanura.

Bristliness (n.) The quality or state of having bristles.

Bristly (a.) Thick set with bristles, or with hairs resembling bristles; rough.

Bristol (n.) A seaport city in the west of England.

Brisure (n.) Any part of a rampart or parapet which deviates from the general direction.

Brisure (n.) A mark of cadency or difference.

Brit (n.) Alt. of Britt

Britt (n.) The young of the common herring; also, a small species of herring; the sprat.

Britt (n.) The minute marine animals (chiefly Entomostraca) upon which the right whales feed.

Britannia (n.) A white-metal alloy of tin, antimony, bismuth, copper, etc. It somewhat resembles silver, and is used for table ware. Called also Britannia metal.

Britannic (a.) Of or pertaining to Great Britain; British; as, her Britannic Majesty.

Brite (v. t.) Alt. of Bright

Bright (v. t.) To be or become overripe, as wheat, barley, or hops.

Briticism (n.) A word, phrase, or idiom peculiar to Great Britain; any manner of using a word or words that is peculiar to Great Britain.

British (a.) Of or pertaining to Great Britain or to its inhabitants; -- sometimes restricted to the original inhabitants.

British (n. pl.) People of Great Britain.

Britisher (n.) An Englishman; a subject or inhabitant of Great Britain, esp. one in the British military or naval service.

Briton (a.) British.

Briton (n.) A native of Great Britain.

Brittle (a.) Easily broken; apt to break; fragile; not tough or tenacious.

Brittlely (adv.) In a brittle manner.

Brittleness (n.) Aptness to break; fragility.

Brittle star () Any species of ophiuran starfishes. See Ophiuroidea.

Britzska (n.) A long carriage, with a calash top, so constructed as to give space for reclining at night, when used on a journey.

Brize (n.) The breeze fly. See Breeze.

Broach (n.) A spit.

Broach (n.) An awl; a bodkin; also, a wooden rod or pin, sharpened at each end, used by thatchers.

Broach (n.) A tool of steel, generally tapering, and of a polygonal form, with from four to eight cutting edges, for smoothing or enlarging holes in metal; sometimes made smooth or without edges, as for burnishing pivot holes in watches; a reamer. The broach for gun barrels is commonly square and without taper.

Broach (n.) A straight tool with file teeth, made of steel, to be pressed through irregular holes in metal that cannot be dressed by revolving tools; a drift.

Broach (n.) A broad chisel for stonecutting.

Broach (n.) A spire rising from a tower.

Broach (n.) A clasp for fastening a garment. See Brooch.

Broach (n.) A spitlike start, on the head of a young stag.

Broach (n.) The stick from which candle wicks are suspended for dipping.

Broach (n.) The pin in a lock which enters the barrel of the key.

Broached (imp. & p. p.) of Broach

Broaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Broach

Broach (n.) To spit; to pierce as with a spit.

Broach (n.) To tap; to pierce, as a cask, in order to draw the liquor. Hence: To let out; to shed, as blood.

Broach (n.) To open for the first time, as stores.

Broach (n.) To make public; to utter; to publish first; to put forth; to introduce as a topic of conversation.

Broach (n.) To cause to begin or break out.

Broach (n.) To shape roughly, as a block of stone, by chiseling with a coarse tool.

Broach (n.) To enlarge or dress (a hole), by using a broach.

Broacher (n.) A spit; a broach.

Broacher (n.) One who broaches, opens, or utters; a first publisher or promoter.

Broad (superl.) Wide; extend in breadth, or from side to side; -- opposed to narrow; as, a broad street, a broad table; an inch broad.

Broad (superl.) Extending far and wide; extensive; vast; as, the broad expanse of ocean.

Broad (superl.) Extended, in the sense of diffused; open; clear; full.

Broad (superl.) Fig.: Having a large measure of any thing or quality; not limited; not restrained; -- applied to any subject, and retaining the literal idea more or less clearly, the precise meaning depending largely on the substantive.

Broad (superl.) Comprehensive; liberal; enlarged.

Broad (superl.) Plain; evident; as, a broad hint.

Broad (superl.) Free; unrestrained; unconfined.

Broad (superl.) Characterized by breadth. See Breadth.

Broad (superl.) Cross; coarse; indelicate; as, a broad compliment; a broad joke; broad humor.

Broad (superl.) Strongly marked; as, a broad Scotch accent.

Broad (n.) The broad part of anything; as, the broad of an oar.

Broad (n.) The spread of a river into a sheet of water; a flooded fen.

Broad (n.) A lathe tool for turning down the insides and bottoms of cylinders.

Broadax Broadaxe (n.) An ancient military weapon; a battle-ax.

Broadax Broadaxe (n.) An ax with a broad edge, for hewing timber.

Broadbill (n.) A wild duck (Aythya, / Fuligula, marila), which appears in large numbers on the eastern coast of the United States, in autumn; -- called also bluebill, blackhead, raft duck, and scaup duck. See Scaup duck.

Broadbill (n.) The shoveler. See Shoveler.

Broadbrim (n.) A hat with a very broad brim, like those worn by men of the society of Friends.

Broadbrim (n.) A member of the society of Friends; a Quaker.

Broad-brimmed (a.) Having a broad brim.

Broadcast (n.) A casting or throwing seed in all directions, as from the hand in sowing.

Broadcast (a.) Cast or dispersed in all directions, as seed from the hand in sowing; widely diffused.

Broadcast (a.) Scattering in all directions (as a method of sowing); -- opposed to planting in hills, or rows.

Broadcast (adv.) So as to scatter or be scattered in all directions; so as to spread widely, as seed from the hand in sowing, or news from the press.

Broad Church () A portion of the Church of England, consisting of persons who claim to hold a position, in respect to doctrine and fellowship, intermediate between the High Church party and the Low Church, or evangelical, party. The term has been applied to other bodies of men holding liberal or comprehensive views of Christian doctrine and fellowship.

Broadcloth (n.) A fine smooth-faced woolen cloth for men's garments, usually of double width (i.e., a yard and a half); -- so called in distinction from woolens three quarters of a yard wide.

Broadened (imp. & p. p.) of Broaden

Broadening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Broaden

Broaden (a.) To grow broad; to become broader or wider.

Broaden (v. t.) To make broad or broader; to render more broad or comprehensive.

Broad gauge () A wider distance between the rails than the standard gauge of four feet eight inches and a half. See Gauge.

Broad-horned (a.) Having horns spreading widely.

Broadish (a.) Rather broad; moderately broad.

Broadleaf (n.) A tree (Terminalia latifolia) of Jamaica, the wood of which is used for boards, scantling, shingles, etc; -- sometimes called the almond tree, from the shape of its fruit.

Broad-leaved (a.) Alt. of Broad-leafed

Broad-leafed (a.) Having broad, or relatively broad, leaves.

Broadly (adv.) In a broad manner.

Broadmouth (n.) One of the Eurylaimidae, a family of East Indian passerine birds.

Broadness (n.) The condition or quality of being broad; breadth; coarseness; grossness.

Broadpiece (n.) An old English gold coin, broader than a guinea, as a Carolus or Jacobus.

Broad seal () The great seal of England; the public seal of a country or state.

Broadseal (v. t.) To stamp with the broad seal; to make sure; to guarantee or warrant.

Broadside (n.) The side of a ship above the water line, from the bow to the quarter.

Broadside (n.) A discharge of or from all the guns on one side of a ship, at the same time.

Broadside (n.) A volley of abuse or denunciation.

Broadside (n.) A sheet of paper containing one large page, or printed on one side only; -- called also broadsheet.

Broadspread (a.) Widespread.

Broadspreading (a.) Spreading widely.

Broadsword (n.) A sword with a broad blade and a cutting edge; a claymore.

Broadwise (adv.) Breadthwise.

Brob (n.) A peculiar brad-shaped spike, to be driven alongside the end of an abutting timber to prevent its slipping.

Brobdingnagian (a.) Colossal; of extraordinary height; gigantic.

Brobdingnagian (n.) A giant.

Brocade (n.) Silk stuff, woven with gold and silver threads, or ornamented with raised flowers, foliage, etc.; -- also applied to other stuffs thus wrought and enriched.

Brocaded (a.) Woven or worked, as brocade, with gold and silver, or with raised flowers, etc.

Brocaded (a.) Dressed in brocade.

Brocage (n.) See Brokkerage.

Brocard (n.) An elementary principle or maximum; a short, proverbial rule, in law, ethics, or metaphysics.

Brocatel (n.) A kind of coarse brocade, or figured fabric, used chiefly for tapestry, linings for carriages, etc.

Brocatel (n.) A marble, clouded and veined with white, gray, yellow, and red, in which the yellow usually prevails. It is also called Siena marble, from its locality.

Brocatello (n.) Same as Brocatel.

Broccoli (n.) A plant of the Cabbage species (Brassica oleracea) of many varieties, resembling the cauliflower. The curd, or flowering head, is the part used for food.

Brochantite (n.) A basic sulphate of copper, occurring in emerald-green crystals.

Broche (a.) Woven with a figure; as, broche goods.

Broche (n.) See Broach, n.

Brochure (v. t.) A printed and stitched book containing only a few leaves; a pamphlet.

Brock (n.) A badger.

Brock (n.) A brocket.

Brocket (n.) A male red deer two years old; -- sometimes called brock.

Brocket (n.) A small South American deer, of several species (Coassus superciliaris, C. rufus, and C. auritus).

Brockish (a.) Beastly; brutal.

Brodekin (n.) A buskin or half-boot.

Brog (n.) A pointed instrument, as a joiner's awl, a brad awl, a needle, or a small sharp stick.

Brog (v. t.) To prod with a pointed instrument, as a lance; also, to broggle.

Brogan (n.) A stout, coarse shoe; a brogue.

Broggle (n.) To sniggle, or fish with a brog.

Brogue (n.) A stout, coarse shoe; a brogan.

Brogue (v. t.) A dialectic pronunciation; esp. the Irish manner of pronouncing English.

Brogues (n. pl.) Breeches.

Broid (v. t.) To braid.

Broidered (imp. & p. p.) of Broider

Broider (v. t.) To embroider.

Broiderer (n.) One who embroiders.

Broidery (n.) Embroidery.

Broil (n.) A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention; discord, either between individuals or in the state.

Broiled (imp. & p. p.) of Broil

Broiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Broil

Broil (v. t.) To cook by direct exposure to heat over a fire, esp. upon a gridiron over coals.

Broil (v. t.) To subject to great (commonly direct) heat.

Broil (v. i.) To be subjected to the action of heat, as meat over the fire; to be greatly heated, or to be made uncomfortable with heat.

Broiler (n.) One who excites broils; one who engages in or promotes noisy quarrels.

Broiler (n.) One who broils, or cooks by broiling.

Broiler (n.) A gridiron or other utensil used in broiling.

Broiler (n.) A chicken or other bird fit for broiling.

Broiling (a.) Excessively hot; as, a broiling sun.

Broiling (n.) The act of causing anything to broil.

Brokage (n.) See Brokerage.

Broke (v. i.) To transact business for another.

Broke (v. i.) To act as procurer in love matters; to pimp.

Broke () imp. & p. p. of Break.

Broken (v. t.) Separated into parts or pieces by violence; divided into fragments; as, a broken chain or rope; a broken dish.

Broken (v. t.) Disconnected; not continuous; also, rough; uneven; as, a broken surface.

Broken (v. t.) Fractured; cracked; disunited; sundered; strained; apart; as, a broken reed; broken friendship.

Broken (v. t.) Made infirm or weak, by disease, age, or hardships.

Broken (v. t.) Subdued; humbled; contrite.

Broken (v. t.) Subjugated; trained for use, as a horse.

Broken (v. t.) Crushed and ruined as by something that destroys hope; blighted.

Broken (v. t.) Not carried into effect; not adhered to; violated; as, a broken promise, vow, or contract; a broken law.

Broken (v. t.) Ruined financially; incapable of redeeming promises made, or of paying debts incurred; as, a broken bank; a broken tradesman.

Broken (v. t.) Imperfectly spoken, as by a foreigner; as, broken English; imperfectly spoken on account of emotion; as, to say a few broken words at parting.

Broken-backed (a.) Having a broken back; as, a broken-backed chair.

Broken-backed (a.) Hogged; so weakened in the frame as to droop at each end; -- said of a ship.

Broken-bellied (a.) Having a ruptured belly.

Broken-hearted (a.) Having the spirits depressed or crushed by grief or despair.

Brokenly (adv.) In a broken, interrupted manner; in a broken state; in broken language.

Brokenness (n.) The state or quality of being broken; unevenness.

Brokenness (n.) Contrition; as, brokenness of heart.

Broken wind () The heaves.

Broken-winded (a.) Having short breath or disordered respiration, as a horse.

Broker (v. t.) One who transacts business for another; an agent.

Broker (v. t.) An agent employed to effect bargains and contracts, as a middleman or negotiator, between other persons, for a compensation commonly called brokerage. He takes no possession, as broker, of the subject matter of the negotiation. He generally contracts in the names of those who employ him, and not in his own.

Broker (v. t.) A dealer in money, notes, bills of exchange, etc.

Broker (v. t.) A dealer in secondhand goods.

Broker (v. t.) A pimp or procurer.

Brokerage (n.) The business or employment of a broker.

Brokerage (n.) The fee, reward, or commission, given or changed for transacting business as a broker.

Brokerly (a.) Mean; servile.

Brokery (n.) The business of a broker.

Broking (a.) Of or pertaining to a broker or brokers, or to brokerage.

Broma (n.) Aliment; food.

Broma (n.) A light form of prepared cocoa (or cacao), or the drink made from it.

Bromal (n.) An oily, colorless fluid, CBr3.COH, related to bromoform, as chloral is to chloroform, and obtained by the action of bromine on alcohol.

Bromate (n.) A salt of bromic acid.

Bromate (v. t.) To combine or impregnate with bromine; as, bromated camphor.

Bromatologist (n.) One versed in the science of foods.

Bromatology (n.) The science of aliments.

Brome (n.) See Bromine.

Brome grass () A genus (Bromus) of grasses, one species of which is the chess or cheat.

Bromeliaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a family of endogenous and mostly epiphytic or saxicolous plants of which the genera Tillandsia and Billbergia are examples. The pineapple, though terrestrial, is also of this family.

Bromic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of those compounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, bromic acid.

Bromide (n.) A compound of bromine with a positive radical.

Brominate (v. t.) See Bromate, v. t.

Bromine (n.) One of the elements, related in its chemical qualities to chlorine and iodine. Atomic weight 79.8. Symbol Br. It is a deep reddish brown liquid of a very disagreeable odor, emitting a brownish vapor at the ordinary temperature. In combination it is found in minute quantities in sea water, and in many saline springs. It occurs also in the mineral bromyrite.

Bromism (n.) A diseased condition produced by the excessive use of bromine or one of its compounds. It is characterized by mental dullness and muscular weakness.

Bromize (v. t.) To prepare or treat with bromine; as, to bromize a silvered plate.

Bromlife (n.) A carbonate of baryta and lime, intermediate between witherite and strontianite; -- called also alstonite.

Bromoform (n.) A colorless liquid, CHBr3, having an agreeable odor and sweetish taste. It is produced by the simultaneous action of bromine and caustic potash upon wood spirit, alcohol, or acetone, as also by certain other reactions. In composition it is the same as chloroform, with the substitution of bromine for chlorine. It is somewhat similar to chloroform in its effects.

Brompicrin (n.) A pungent colorless explosive liquid, CNO2Br3, analogous to and resembling chlorpicrin.

Bromuret (n.) See Bromide.

Bromyrite (n.) Silver bromide, a rare mineral; -- called also bromargyrite.

Bronchi (n. pl.) See Bronchus.

Bronchia (n. pl.) The bronchial tubes which arise from the branching of the trachea, esp. the subdivision of the bronchi.

Bronchial (a.) Belonging to the bronchi and their ramifications in the lungs.

Bronchic (a.) Bronchial.

Bronchiole (n.) A minute bronchial tube.

Bronchitic (a.) Of or pertaining to bronchitis; as, bronchitic inflammation.

Bronchitis (n.) Inflammation, acute or chronic, of the bronchial tubes or any part of them.

Broncho (n.) A native or a Mexican horse of small size.

Bronchocele (n.) See Goiter.

Bronchophony (n.) A modification of the voice sounds, by which they are intensified and heightened in pitch; -- observed in auscultation of the chest in certain cases of intro-thoracic disease.

Broncho-pneumonia (n.) Inflammation of the bronchi and lungs; catarrhal pneumonia.

Bronchotome (n.) An instrument for cutting into the bronchial tubes.

Bronchotomy (n.) An incision into the windpipe or larynx, including the operations of tracheotomy and laryngotomy.

Bronchi (pl. ) of Bronchus

Bronchus (n.) One of the subdivisions of the trachea or windpipe; esp. one of the two primary divisions.

Bronco (n.) Same as Broncho.

Brond (n.) A sword.

Brontolite (n.) Alt. of Brontolith

Brontolith (n.) An aerolite.

Brontology (n.) A treatise upon thunder.

Brontosaurus (n.) A genus of American jurassic dinosaurs. A length of sixty feet is believed to have been attained by these reptiles.

Brontotherium (n.) A genus of large extinct mammals from the miocene strata of western North America. They were allied to the rhinoceros, but the skull bears a pair of powerful horn cores in front of the orbits, and the fore feet were four-toed. See Illustration in Appendix.

Brontozoum (n.) An extinct animal of large size, known from its three-toed footprints in Mesozoic sandstone.

Bronze (a.) An alloy of copper and tin, to which small proportions of other metals, especially zinc, are sometimes added. It is hard and sonorous, and is used for statues, bells, cannon, etc., the proportions of the ingredients being varied to suit the particular purposes. The varieties containing the higher proportions of tin are brittle, as in bell metal and speculum metal.

Bronze (a.) A statue, bust, etc., cast in bronze.

Bronze (a.) A yellowish or reddish brown, the color of bronze; also, a pigment or powder for imitating bronze.

Bronze (a.) Boldness; impudence; brass.

Bronzed (imp. & p. p.) of Bronze

Bronzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bronze

Bronze (n.) To give an appearance of bronze to, by a coating of bronze powder, or by other means; to make of the color of bronze; as, to bronze plaster casts; to bronze coins or medals.

Bronze (n.) To make hard or unfeeling; to brazen.

Bronzewing (n.) An Australian pigeon of the genus Phaps, of several species; -- so called from its bronze plumage.

Bronzine (n.) A metal so prepared as to have the appearance of bronze.

Bronzine (a.) Made of bronzine; resembling bronze; bronzelike.

Bronzing (n.) The act or art of communicating to articles in metal, wood, clay, plaster, etc., the appearance of bronze by means of bronze powders, or imitative painting, or by chemical processes.

Bronzing (n.) A material for bronzing.

Bronzist (n.) One who makes, imitates, collects, or deals in, bronzes.

Bronzite (n.) A variety of enstatite, often having a bronzelike luster. It is a silicate of magnesia and iron, of the pyroxene family.

Bronzy (a.) Like bronze.

Brooch (n.) An ornament, in various forms, with a tongue, pin, or loop for attaching it to a garment; now worn at the breast by women; a breastpin. Formerly worn by men on the hat.

Brooch (n.) A painting all of one color, as a sepia painting, or an India painting.

Brooch (imp. & p. p.) To adorn as with a brooch.

Brood (v. t.) The young birds hatched at one time; a hatch; as, a brood of chickens.

Brood (v. t.) The young from the same dam, whether produced at the same time or not; young children of the same mother, especially if nearly of the same age; offspring; progeny; as, a woman with a brood of children.

Brood (v. t.) That which is bred or produced; breed; species.

Brood (v. t.) Heavy waste in tin and copper ores.

Brood (a.) Sitting or inclined to sit on eggs.

Brood (a.) Kept for breeding from; as, a brood mare; brood stock; having young; as, a brood sow.

Brooded (imp. & p. p.) of Brood

Brooding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brood

Brood (v. i.) To sit on and cover eggs, as a fowl, for the purpose of warming them and hatching the young; or to sit over and cover young, as a hen her chickens, in order to warm and protect them; hence, to sit quietly, as if brooding.

Brood (v. i.) To have the mind dwell continuously or moodily on a subject; to think long and anxiously; to be in a state of gloomy, serious thought; -- usually followed by over or on; as, to brood over misfortunes.

Brood (v. t.) To sit over, cover, and cherish; as, a hen broods her chickens.

Brood (v. t.) To cherish with care.

Brood (v. t.) To think anxiously or moodily upon.

Broody (a.) Inclined to brood.

Brook (v. t.) A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek.

Brooked (imp. & p. p.) of Brook

Brooking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brook

Brook (v. t.) To use; to enjoy.

Brook (v. t.) To bear; to endure; to put up with; to tolerate; as, young men can not brook restraint.

Brook (v. t.) To deserve; to earn.

Brookite (n.) A mineral consisting of titanic oxide, and hence identical with rutile and octahedrite in composition, but crystallizing in the orthorhombic system.

Brooklet (n.) A small brook.

Brooklime (n.) A plant (Veronica Beccabunga), with flowers, usually blue, in axillary racemes. The American species is V. Americana.

Brook mint () See Water mint.

Brookside (n.) The bank of a brook.

Brookweed (n.) A small white-flowered herb (Samolus Valerandi) found usually in wet places; water pimpernel.

Broom (n.) A plant having twigs suitable for making brooms to sweep with when bound together; esp., the Cytisus scoparius of Western Europe, which is a low shrub with long, straight, green, angular branches, minute leaves, and large yellow flowers.

Broom (n.) An implement for sweeping floors, etc., commonly made of the panicles or tops of broom corn, bound together or attached to a long wooden handle; -- so called because originally made of the twigs of the broom.

Broom (v. t.) See Bream.

Broom corn () A variety of Sorghum vulgare, having a joined stem, like maize, rising to the height of eight or ten feet, and bearing its seeds on a panicle with long branches, of which brooms are made.

Broom rape () A genus (Orobanche) of parasitic plants of Europe and Asia. They are destitute of chlorophyll, have scales instead of leaves, and spiked flowers, and grow attached to the roots of other plants, as furze, clover, flax, wild carrot, etc. The name is sometimes applied to other plants related to this genus, as Aphyllon uniflorumand A. Ludovicianum.

Broomstaff (n.) A broomstick.

Broomstick (n.) A stick used as a handle of a broom.

Broomy (a.) Of or pertaining to broom; overgrowing with broom; resembling broom or a broom.

Brose (n.) Pottage made by pouring some boiling liquid on meal (esp. oatmeal), and stirring it. It is called beef brose, water brose, etc., according to the name of the liquid (beef broth, hot water, etc.) used.

Brotel (a.) Brittle.

Brotelness (n.) Brittleness.

Broth (n.) Liquid in which flesh (and sometimes other substances, as barley or rice) has been boiled; thin or simple soup.

Brothel (n.) A house of lewdness or ill fame; a house frequented by prostitutes; a bawdyhouse.

Brotheler (n.) One who frequents brothels.

Brothelry (n.) Lewdness; obscenity; a brothel.

Brothers (pl. ) of Brother

Brethren (pl. ) of Brother

Brothers (pl. ) of Brother

Brethren (pl. ) of Brother

Brother (n.) A male person who has the same father and mother with another person, or who has one of them only. In the latter case he is more definitely called a half brother, or brother of the half blood.

Brother (n.) One related or closely united to another by some common tie or interest, as of rank, profession, membership in a society, toil, suffering, etc.; -- used among judges, clergymen, monks, physicians, lawyers, professors of religion, etc.

Brother (n.) One who, or that which, resembles another in distinctive qualities or traits of character.

Brothered (imp. & p. p.) of Brother

Brother (v. t.) To make a brother of; to call or treat as a brother; to admit to a brotherhood.

Brother german () A brother by both the father's and mother's side, in contradistinction to a uterine brother, one by the mother only.

Brotherhood (n.) The state of being brothers or a brother.

Brotherhood (n.) An association for any purpose, as a society of monks; a fraternity.

Brotherhood (n.) The whole body of persons engaged in the same business, -- especially those of the same profession; as, the legal or medical brotherhood.

Brotherhood (n.) Persons, and, poetically, things, of a like kind.

Brothers-in-law (pl. ) of Brother-in-law

Brother-in-law (n.) The brother of one's husband or wife; also, the husband of one's sister; sometimes, the husband of one's wife's sister.

Brotherliness (n.) The state or quality of being brotherly.

Brotherly (a.) Of or pertaining to brothers; such as is natural for brothers; becoming to brothers; kind; affectionate; as, brotherly love.

Brotherly (adv.) Like a brother; affectionately; kindly.

Brouded (p.a.) Braided; broidered.

Brougham (n.) A light, close carriage, with seats inside for two or four, and the fore wheels so arranged as to turn short.

Brow (n.) The prominent ridge over the eye, with the hair that covers it, forming an arch above the orbit.

Brow (n.) The hair that covers the brow (ridge over the eyes); the eyebrow.

Brow (n.) The forehead; as, a feverish brow.

Brow (n.) The general air of the countenance.

Brow (n.) The edge or projecting upper part of a steep place; as, the brow of a precipice; the brow of a hill.

Brow (v. t.) To bound to limit; to be at, or form, the edge of.

Browbeat (imp.) of Browbeat

Browbeaten (p. p.) of Browbeat

Browbeating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Browbeat

Browbeat (v. t.) To depress or bear down with haughty, stern looks, or with arrogant speech and dogmatic assertions; to abash or disconcert by impudent or abusive words or looks; to bully; as, to browbeat witnesses.

Browbeating (n.) The act of bearing down, abashing, or disconcerting, with stern looks, supercilious manners, or confident assertions.

Browbound (a.) Crowned; having the head encircled as with a diadem.

Browdyng (n.) Embroidery.

Browed (a.) Having (such) a brow; -- used in composition; as, dark-browed, stern-browed.

Browless (a.) Without shame.

Brown (superl.) Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red or yellow.

Brown (n.) A dark color inclining to red or yellow, resulting from the mixture of red and black, or of red, black, and yellow; a tawny, dusky hue.

Browned (imp. & p. p.) of Brown

Browning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brown

Brown (v. t.) To make brown or dusky.

Brown (v. t.) To make brown by scorching slightly; as, to brown meat or flour.

Brown (v. t.) To give a bright brown color to, as to gun barrels, by forming a thin coat of oxide on their surface.

Brown (v. i.) To become brown.

Brownback (n.) The dowitcher or red-breasted snipe. See Dowitcher.

Brown bill () A bill or halberd of the 16th and 17th centuries. See 4th Bill.

Brownian (a.) Pertaining to Dr. Robert Brown, who first demonstrated (about 1827) the commonness of the motion described below.

Brownie (n.) An imaginary good-natured spirit, who was supposed often to perform important services around the house by night, such as thrashing, churning, sweeping.

Browning (n.) The act or operation of giving a brown color, as to gun barrels, etc.

Browning (n.) A smooth coat of brown mortar, usually the second coat, and the preparation for the finishing coat of plaster.

Brownish (a.) Somewhat brown.

Brownism (n.) The views or teachings of Robert Brown of the Brownists.

Brownism (n.) The doctrines of the Brunonian system of medicine. See Brunonian.

Brownist (n.) A follower of Robert Brown, of England, in the 16th century, who taught that every church is complete and independent in itself when organized, and consists of members meeting in one place, having full power to elect and depose its officers.

Brownist (n.) One who advocates the Brunonian system of medicine.

Brownness (n.) The quality or state of being brown.

Brownstone (n.) A dark variety of sandstone, much used for building purposes.

Brown thrush () A common American singing bird (Harporhynchus rufus), allied to the mocking bird; -- also called brown thrasher.

Brownwort (n.) A species of figwort or Scrophularia (S. vernalis), and other species of the same genus, mostly perennials with inconspicuous coarse flowers.

Browny (a.) Brown or, somewhat brown.

Browpost (n.) A beam that goes across a building.

Browse (n.) The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for the food of cattle and other animals; green food.

Browsed (imp. & p. p.) of Browse

Browsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Browse

Browse (n.) To eat or nibble off, as the tender branches of trees, shrubs, etc.; -- said of cattle, sheep, deer, and some other animals.

Browse (n.) To feed on, as pasture; to pasture on; to graze.

Browse (v. i.) To feed on the tender branches or shoots of shrubs or trees, as do cattle, sheep, and deer.

Browse (v. i.) To pasture; to feed; to nibble.

Browser (n.) An animal that browses.

Browsewood (n.) Shrubs and bushes upon which animals browse.

Browsing (n.) Browse; also, a place abounding with shrubs where animals may browse.

Browspot (n.) A rounded organ between the eyes of the frog; the interocular gland.

Bruang (n.) The Malayan sun bear.

Brucine (n.) A powerful vegetable alkaloid, found, associated with strychnine, in the seeds of different species of Strychnos, especially in the Nux vomica. It is less powerful than strychnine. Called also brucia and brucina.

Brucite (n.) A white, pearly mineral, occurring thin and foliated, like talc, and also fibrous; a native magnesium hydrate.

Brucite (n.) The mineral chondrodite.

Bruckeled (a.) Wet and dirty; begrimed.

Bruh (n.) The rhesus monkey. See Rhesus.

Bruin (a.) A bear; -- so called in popular tales and fables.

Bruised (imp. & p. p.) of Bruise

Bruising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bruise

Bruise (v. t.) To injure, as by a blow or collision, without laceration; to contuse; as, to bruise one's finger with a hammer; to bruise the bark of a tree with a stone; to bruise an apple by letting it fall.

Bruise (v. t.) To break; as in a mortar; to bray, as minerals, roots, etc.; to crush.

Bruise (v. i.) To fight with the fists; to box.

Bruise (n.) An injury to the flesh of animals, or to plants, fruit, etc., with a blunt or heavy instrument, or by collision with some other body; a contusion; as, a bruise on the head; bruises on fruit.

Bruiser (n.) One who, or that which, bruises.

Bruiser (n.) A boxer; a pugilist.

Bruiser (n.) A concave tool used in grinding lenses or the speculums of telescopes.

Bruisewort (n.) A plant supposed to heal bruises, as the true daisy, the soapwort, and the comfrey.

Bruit (n.) Report; rumor; fame.

Bruit (n.) An abnormal sound of several kinds, heard on auscultation.

Bruited (imp. & p. p.) of Bruit

Bruiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bruit

Bruit (v. t.) To report; to noise abroad.

Brumaire (n.) The second month of the calendar adopted by the first French republic. It began thirty days after the autumnal equinox. See Vendemiaire.

Brumal (a.) Of or pertaining to winter.

Brume (n.) Mist; fog; vapors.

Brummagem (a.) Counterfeit; gaudy but worthless; sham.

Brumous (a.) Foggy; misty.

Brun (n.) Same as Brun, a brook.

Brunette (a.) A girl or woman with a somewhat brown or dark complexion.

Brunette (a.) Having a dark tint.

Brunion (n.) A nectarine.

Brunonian (a.) Pertaining to, or invented by, Brown; -- a term applied to a system of medicine promulgated in the 18th century by John Brown, of Scotland, the fundamental doctrine of which was, that life is a state of excitation produced by the normal action of external agents upon the body, and that disease consists in excess or deficiency of excitation.

Brunswick black () See Japan black.

Brunswick green () An oxychloride of copper, used as a green pigment; also, a carbonate of copper similarly employed.

Brunt (v. t.) The heat, or utmost violence, of an onset; the strength or greatest fury of any contention; as, the brunt of a battle.

Brunt (v. t.) The force of a blow; shock; collision.

Brush (n.) An instrument composed of bristles, or other like material, set in a suitable back or handle, as of wood, bone, or ivory, and used for various purposes, as in removing dust from clothes, laying on colors, etc. Brushes have different shapes and names according to their use; as, clothes brush, paint brush, tooth brush, etc.

Brush (n.) The bushy tail of a fox.

Brush (n.) A tuft of hair on the mandibles.

Brush (n.) Branches of trees lopped off; brushwood.

Brush (n.) A thicket of shrubs or small trees; the shrubs and small trees in a wood; underbrush.

Brush (n.) A bundle of flexible wires or thin plates of metal, used to conduct an electrical current to or from the commutator of a dynamo, electric motor, or similar apparatus.

Brush (n.) The act of brushing; as, to give one's clothes a brush; a rubbing or grazing with a quick motion; a light touch; as, we got a brush from the wheel as it passed.

Brush (n.) A skirmish; a slight encounter; a shock or collision; as, to have a brush with an enemy.

Brush (n.) A short contest, or trial, of speed.

Brushed (imp. & p. p.) of Brush

Brushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brush

Brush (n.) To apply a brush to, according to its particular use; to rub, smooth, clean, paint, etc., with a brush.

Brush (n.) To touch in passing, or to pass lightly over, as with a brush.

Brush (n.) To remove or gather by brushing, or by an act like that of brushing, or by passing lightly over, as wind; -- commonly with off.

Brush (v. i.) To move nimbly in haste; to move so lightly as scarcely to be perceived; as, to brush by.

Brusher (n.) One who, or that which, brushes.

Brushiness (n.) The quality of resembling a brush; brushlike condition; shagginess.

Brushing (a.) Constructed or used to brush with; as a brushing machine.

Brushing (a.) Brisk; light; as, a brushing gallop.

Brushite (n.) A white or gray crystalline mineral consisting of the acid phosphate of calcium.

Brush turkey () A large, edible, gregarious bird of Australia (Talegalla Lathami) of the family Megapodidae. Also applied to several allied species of New Guinea.

Brush wheel () A wheel without teeth, used to turn a similar one by the friction of bristles or something brushlike or soft attached to the circumference.

Brush wheel () A circular revolving brush used by turners, lapidaries, silversmiths, etc., for polishing.

Brushwood (n.) Brush; a thicket or coppice of small trees and shrubs.

Brushwood (n.) Small branches of trees cut off.

Brushy (a.) Resembling a brush; shaggy; rough.

Brusk (a.) Same as Brusque.

Brusque (a.) Rough and prompt in manner; blunt; abrupt; bluff; as, a brusque man; a brusque style.

Brusqueness (n.) Quality of being brusque; roughness joined with promptness; bluntness.

Brussels (n.) A city of Belgium, giving its name to a kind of carpet, a kind of lace, etc.

Brustled (imp. & p. p.) of Brustle

Brustling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brustle

Brustle (v. i.) To crackle; to rustle, as a silk garment.

Brustle (v. i.) To make a show of fierceness or defiance; to bristle.

Brustle (n.) A bristle.

Brut (n.) To browse.

Brut (n.) See Birt.

Bruta (n.) See Edentata.

Brutal (a.) Of or pertaining to a brute; as, brutal nature.

Brutal (a.) Like a brute; savage; cruel; inhuman; brutish; unfeeling; merciless; gross; as, brutal manners.

Brutalism (n.) Brutish quality; brutality.

Brutalities (pl. ) of Brutality

Brutality (n.) The quality of being brutal; inhumanity; savageness; pitilessness.

Brutality (n.) An inhuman act.

Brutalization (n.) The act or process of making brutal; state of being brutalized.

Brutalized (imp. & p. p.) of Brutalize

Brutalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brutalize

Brutalize (v. t.) To make brutal; beasty; unfeeling; or inhuman.

Brutalize (v. i.) To become brutal, inhuman, barbarous, or coarse and beasty.

Brutally (adv.) In a brutal manner; cruelly.

Brute (a.) Not having sensation; senseless; inanimate; unconscious; without intelligence or volition; as, the brute earth; the brute powers of nature.

Brute (a.) Not possessing reason, irrational; unthinking; as, a brute beast; the brute creation.

Brute (a.) Of, pertaining to, or characteristic of, a brute beast. Hence: Brutal; cruel; fierce; ferocious; savage; pitiless; as, brute violence.

Brute (a.) Having the physical powers predominating over the mental; coarse; unpolished; unintelligent.

Brute (a.) Rough; uncivilized; unfeeling.

Brute (n.) An animal destitute of human reason; any animal not human; esp. a quadruped; a beast.

Brute (n.) A brutal person; a savage in heart or manners; as unfeeling or coarse person.

Brute (v. t.) To report; to bruit.

Brutely (adv.) In a rude or violent manner.

Bruteness (n.) Brutality.

Bruteness (n.) Insensibility.

Brutified (imp. & p. p.) of Brutify

Brutifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brutify

Brutify (v. t.) To make like a brute; to make senseless, stupid, or unfeeling; to brutalize.

Brutish (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a brute or brutes; of a cruel, gross, and stupid nature; coarse; unfeeling; unintelligent.

Brutism (n.) The nature or characteristic qualities or actions of a brute; extreme stupidity, or beastly vulgarity.

Bruting (n.) Browsing.

Bryological (a.) Relating to bryology; as, bryological studies.

Bryologist (n.) One versed in bryology.

Bryology (n.) That part of botany which relates to mosses.

Bryonin (n.) A bitter principle obtained from the root of the bryony (Bryonia alba and B. dioica). It is a white, or slightly colored, substance, and is emetic and cathartic.

Bryony (n.) The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genus Bryonia. The root of B. alba (rough or white bryony) and of B. dioica is a strong, irritating cathartic.

Bryophyta (n. pl.) See Cryptogamia.

Bryozoa (n. pl.) A class of Molluscoidea, including minute animals which by budding form compound colonies; -- called also Polyzoa.

Bryozoan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Bryozoa.

Bryozoan (n.) One of the Bryozoa.

Bryozoum (n.) An individual zooid of a bryozoan coralline, of which there may be two or more kinds in a single colony. The zooecia usually have a wreath of tentacles around the mouth, and a well developed stomach and intestinal canal; but these parts are lacking in the other zooids (Avicularia, Ooecia, etc.).

Buansuah (n.) The wild dog of northern India (Cuon primaevus), supposed by some to be an ancestral species of the domestic dog.

Buat (n.) A lantern; also, the moon.

Bub (n.) Strong malt liquor.

Bub (n.) A young brother; a little boy; -- a familiar term of address of a small boy.

Bub (v. t.) To throw out in bubbles; to bubble.

Bubale (n.) A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desert of Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible.

Bubaline (a.) Resembling a buffalo.

Bubble (n.) A thin film of liquid inflated with air or gas; as, a soap bubble; bubbles on the surface of a river.

Bubble (n.) A small quantity of air or gas within a liquid body; as, bubbles rising in champagne or aerated waters.

Bubble (n.) A globule of air, or globular vacuum, in a transparent solid; as, bubbles in window glass, or in a lens.

Bubble (n.) A small, hollow, floating bead or globe, formerly used for testing the strength of spirits.

Bubble (n.) The globule of air in the spirit tube of a level.

Bubble (n.) Anything that wants firmness or solidity; that which is more specious than real; a false show; a cheat or fraud; a delusive scheme; an empty project; a dishonest speculation; as, the South Sea bubble.

Bubble (n.) A person deceived by an empty project; a gull.

Bubbled (imp. & p. p.) of Bubble

Bubbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bubble

Bubble (n.) To rise in bubbles, as liquids when boiling or agitated; to contain bubbles.

Bubble (n.) To run with a gurgling noise, as if forming bubbles; as, a bubbling stream.

Bubble (n.) To sing with a gurgling or warbling sound.

Bubbler (v. t.) To cheat; to deceive.

Bubbler (n.) One who cheats.

Bubbler (n.) A fish of the Ohio river; -- so called from the noise it makes.

Bubble shell () A marine univalve shell of the genus Bulla and allied genera, belonging to the Tectibranchiata.

Bubbling Jock () The male wild turkey, the gobbler; -- so called in allusion to its notes.

Bubbly (a.) Abounding in bubbles; bubbling.

Bubby (n.) A woman's breast.

Bubby (n.) Bub; -- a term of familiar or affectionate address to a small boy.

Buboes (pl. ) of Bubo

Bubo (n.) An inflammation, with enlargement, of a lymphatic gland, esp. in the groin, as in syphilis.

Bubonic (a.) Of or pertaining to a bubo or buboes; characterized by buboes.

Bubonocele (n.) An inguinal hernia; esp. that incomplete variety in which the hernial pouch descends only as far as the groin, forming a swelling there like a bubo.

Bubukle (n.) A red pimple.

Buccal (a.) Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks.

Buccaneer (n.) A robber upon the sea; a pirate; -- a term applied especially to the piratical adventurers who made depredations on the Spaniards in America in the 17th and 18th centuries.

Buccaneer (v. i.) To act the part of a buccaneer; to live as a piratical adventurer or sea robber.

Buccaneerish (a.) Like a buccaneer; piratical.

Buccinal (a.) Shaped or sounding like a trumpet; trumpetlike.

Buccinator (n.) A muscle of the cheek; -- so called from its use in blowing wind instruments.

Buccinoid (a.) Resembling the genus Buccinum, or pertaining to the Buccinidae, a family of marine univalve shells. See Whelk, and Prosobranchiata.

Buccinum (n.) A genus of large univalve mollusks abundant in the arctic seas. It includes the common whelk (B. undatum).

Bucentaur (n.) A fabulous monster, half ox, half man.

Bucentaur (n.) The state barge of Venice, used by the doge in the ceremony of espousing the Adriatic.

Buceros (n.) A genus of large perching birds; the hornbills.

Bucholzite (n.) Same as Fibrolite.

Buchu (n.) A South African shrub (Barosma) with small leaves that are dotted with oil glands; also, the leaves themselves, which are used in medicine for diseases of the urinary organs, etc. Several species furnish the leaves.

Buck (n.) Lye or suds in which cloth is soaked in the operation of bleaching, or in which clothes are washed.

Buck (n.) The cloth or clothes soaked or washed.

Bucked (imp. & p. p.) of Buck

Bucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buck

Buck (v. t.) To soak, steep, or boil, in lye or suds; -- a process in bleaching.

Buck (v. t.) To wash (clothes) in lye or suds, or, in later usage, by beating them on stones in running water.

Buck (v. t.) To break up or pulverize, as ores.

Buck (n.) The male of deer, especially fallow deer and antelopes, or of goats, sheep, hares, and rabbits.

Buck (n.) A gay, dashing young fellow; a fop; a dandy.

Buck (n.) A male Indian or negro.

Buck (v. i.) To copulate, as bucks and does.

Buck (v. i.) To spring with quick plunging leaps, descending with the fore legs rigid and the head held as low down as possible; -- said of a vicious horse or mule.

Buck (v. t.) To subject to a mode of punishment which consists in tying the wrists together, passing the arms over the bent knees, and putting a stick across the arms and in the angle formed by the knees.

Buck (v. t.) To throw by bucking. See Buck, v. i., 2.

Buck (n.) A frame on which firewood is sawed; a sawhorse; a sawbuck.

Buck (n.) The beech tree.

Buck-basket (n.) A basket in which clothes are carried to the wash.

Buck bean () A plant (Menyanthes trifoliata) which grows in moist and boggy places, having racemes of white or reddish flowers and intensely bitter leaves, sometimes used in medicine; marsh trefoil; -- called also bog bean.

Buckboard (n.) A four-wheeled vehicle, having a long elastic board or frame resting on the bolsters or axletrees, and a seat or seats placed transversely upon it; -- called also buck wagon.

Bucker (n.) One who bucks ore.

Bucker (n.) A broad-headed hammer used in bucking ore.

Bucker (n.) A horse or mule that bucks.

Bucket (n.) A vessel for drawing up water from a well, or for catching, holding, or carrying water, sap, or other liquids.

Bucket (n.) A vessel (as a tub or scoop) for hoisting and conveying coal, ore, grain, etc.

Bucket (n.) One of the receptacles on the rim of a water wheel into which the water rushes, causing the wheel to revolve; also, a float of a paddle wheel.

Bucket (n.) The valved piston of a lifting pump.

Bucket shop () An office or a place where facilities are given for betting small sums on current prices of stocks, petroleum, etc.

Buckety (n.) Paste used by weavers to dress their webs.

Buckeye (n.) A name given to several American trees and shrubs of the same genus (Aesculus) as the horse chestnut.

Buckeye (n.) A cant name for a native in Ohio.

Buck-eyed (a.) Having bad or speckled eyes.

Buckhound (n.) A hound for hunting deer.

Buckie (n.) A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. See Buccinum.

Bucking (n.) The act or process of soaking or boiling cloth in an alkaline liquid in the operation of bleaching; also, the liquid used.

Bucking (n.) A washing.

Bucking (n.) The process of breaking up or pulverizing ores.

Buckish (a.) Dandified; foppish.

Buckle (n.) A device, usually of metal, consisting of a frame with one more movable tongues or catches, used for fastening things together, as parts of dress or harness, by means of a strap passing through the frame and pierced by the tongue.

Buckle (n.) A distortion bulge, bend, or kink, as in a saw blade or a plate of sheet metal.

Buckle (n.) A curl of hair, esp. a kind of crisp curl formerly worn; also, the state of being curled.

Buckle (n.) A contorted expression, as of the face.

Buckled (imp. & p. p.) of Buckle

Buckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buckle

Buckle (n.) To fasten or confine with a buckle or buckles; as, to buckle a harness.

Buckle (n.) To bend; to cause to kink, or to become distorted.

Buckle (n.) To prepare for action; to apply with vigor and earnestness; -- generally used reflexively.

Buckle (n.) To join in marriage.

Buckle (v. i.) To bend permanently; to become distorted; to bow; to curl; to kink.

Buckle (v. i.) To bend out of a true vertical plane, as a wall.

Buckle (v. i.) To yield; to give way; to cease opposing.

Buckle (v. i.) To enter upon some labor or contest; to join in close fight; to struggle; to contend.

Buckler (n.) A kind of shield, of various shapes and sizes, worn on one of the arms (usually the left) for protecting the front of the body.

Buckler (n.) One of the large, bony, external plates found on many ganoid fishes.

Buckler (n.) The anterior segment of the shell of trilobites.

Buckler (n.) A block of wood or plate of iron made to fit a hawse hole, or the circular opening in a half-port, to prevent water from entering when the vessel pitches.

Buckler (v. t.) To shield; to defend.

Buckler-headed (a.) Having a head like a buckler.

Buckling (a.) Wavy; curling, as hair.

Buckra (n.) A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast, West Indies, etc.

Buckra (a.) White; white man's; strong; good; as, buckra yam, a white yam.

Buckram (n.) A coarse cloth of linen or hemp, stiffened with size or glue, used in garments to keep them in the form intended, and for wrappers to cover merchandise.

Buckram (n.) A plant. See Ramson.

Buckram (a.) Made of buckram; as, a buckram suit.

Buckram (a.) Stiff; precise.

Buckram (v. t.) To strengthen with buckram; to make stiff.

Buck's-horn (n.) A plant with leaves branched somewhat like a buck's horn (Plantago Coronopus); also, Lobelia coronopifolia.

Buckshot (n.) A coarse leaden shot, larger than swan shot, used in hunting deer and large game.

Buckskin (n.) The skin of a buck.

Buckskin (n.) A soft strong leather, usually yellowish or grayish in color, made of deerskin.

Buckskin (n.) A person clothed in buckskin, particularly an American soldier of the Revolutionary war.

Buckskin (n.) Breeches made of buckskin.

Buckstall (n.) A toil or net to take deer.

Buckthorn (n.) A genus (Rhamnus) of shrubs or trees. The shorter branches of some species terminate in long spines or thorns. See Rhamnus.

Bucktooth (n.) Any tooth that juts out.

Buckwheat (n.) A plant (Fagopyrum esculentum) of the Polygonum family, the seed of which is used for food.

Buckwheat (n.) The triangular seed used, when ground, for griddle cakes, etc.

Bucolic (a.) Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd; pastoral; rustic.

Bucolic (n.) A pastoral poem, representing rural affairs, and the life, manners, and occupation of shepherds; as, the Bucolics of Theocritus and Virgil.

Bucolical (a.) Bucolic.

Bucrania (pl. ) of Bucranium

Bucranium (n.) A sculptured ornament, representing an ox skull adorned with wreaths, etc.

Bud (n.) A small protuberance on the stem or branches of a plant, containing the rudiments of future leaves, flowers, or stems; an undeveloped branch or flower.

Bud (n.) A small protuberance on certain low forms of animals and vegetables which develops into a new organism, either free or attached. See Hydra.

Budded (imp. & p. p.) of Bud

Budding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bud

Bud (v. i.) To put forth or produce buds, as a plant; to grow, as a bud does, into a flower or shoot.

Bud (v. i.) To begin to grow, or to issue from a stock in the manner of a bud, as a horn.

Bud (v. i.) To be like a bud in respect to youth and freshness, or growth and promise; as, a budding virgin.

Bud (v. t.) To graft, as a plant with another or into another, by inserting a bud from the one into an opening in the bark of the other, in order to raise, upon the budded stock, fruit different from that which it would naturally bear.

Buddha (n.) The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, and wisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. Gautama Siddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni), the founder of Buddhism.

Buddhism (n.) The religion based upon the doctrine originally taught by the Hindoo sage Gautama Siddartha, surnamed Buddha, the awakened or enlightened, in the sixth century b. c., and adopted as a religion by the greater part of the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Asia and the Indian Islands. Buddha's teaching is believed to have been atheistic; yet it was characterized by elevated humanity and morality. It presents release from existence (a beatific enfranchisement, Nirvana) as the greatest good. Buddhists believe in transmigration of souls through all phases and forms of life. Their number was estimated in 1881 at 470,000,000.

Buddhist (n.) One who accepts the teachings of Buddhism.

Buddhist (a.) Of or pertaining to Buddha, Buddhism, or the Buddhists.

Buddhistic (a.) Same as Buddhist, a.

Budding (n.) The act or process of producing buds.

Budding (n.) A process of asexual reproduction, in which a new organism or cell is formed by a protrusion of a portion of the animal or vegetable organism, the bud thus formed sometimes remaining attached to the parent stalk or cell, at other times becoming free; gemmation. See Hydroidea.

Budding (n.) The act or process of ingrafting one kind of plant upon another stock by inserting a bud under the bark.

Buddle (n.) An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in which stamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of running water so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions.

Buddle (v. i.) To wash ore in a buddle.

Bude burner () A burner consisting of two or more concentric Argand burners (the inner rising above the outer) and a central tube by which oxygen gas or common air is supplied.

Bude light () A light in which high illuminating power is obtained by introducing a jet of oxygen gas or of common air into the center of a flame fed with coal gas or with oil.

Budged (imp. & p. p.) of Budge

Budging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Budge

Budge (v. i.) To move off; to stir; to walk away.

Budge (v.) Brisk; stirring; jocund.

Budge (n.) A kind of fur prepared from lambskin dressed with the wool on; -- used formerly as an edging and ornament, esp. of scholastic habits.

Budge (a.) Lined with budge; hence, scholastic.

Budge (a.) Austere or stiff, like scholastics.

Budgeness (n.) Sternness; severity.

Budger (n.) One who budges.

budgerow (n.) A large and commodious, but generally cumbrous and sluggish boat, used for journeys on the Ganges.

Budget (n.) A bag or sack with its contents; hence, a stock or store; an accumulation; as, a budget of inventions.

Budget (n.) The annual financial statement which the British chancellor of the exchequer makes in the House of Commons. It comprehends a general view of the finances of the country, with the proposed plan of taxation for the ensuing year. The term is sometimes applied to a similar statement in other countries.

Budgy (n.) Consisting of fur.

Budlet (n.) A little bud springing from a parent bud.

Buff (n.) A sort of leather, prepared from the skin of the buffalo, dressed with oil, like chamois; also, the skins of oxen, elks, and other animals, dressed in like manner.

Buff (n.) The color of buff; a light yellow, shading toward pink, gray, or brown.

Buff (n.) A military coat, made of buff leather.

Buff (n.) The grayish viscid substance constituting the buffy coat. See Buffy coat, under Buffy, a.

Buff (a.) A wheel covered with buff leather, and used in polishing cutlery, spoons, etc.

Buff (a.) The bare skin; as, to strip to the buff.

Buff (a.) Made of buff leather.

Buff (a.) Of the color of buff.

Buff (v. t.) To polish with a buff. See Buff, n., 5.

Buff (v. t.) To strike.

Buff (n.) A buffet; a blow; -- obsolete except in the phrase Blindman's buff.

Buff (a.) Firm; sturdy.

Buffa (n. fem.) The comic actress in an opera.

Buffa (a.) Comic, farcical.

Buffaloes (pl. ) of Buffalo

Buffalo (n.) A species of the genus Bos or Bubalus (B. bubalus), originally from India, but now found in most of the warmer countries of the eastern continent. It is larger and less docile than the common ox, and is fond of marshy places and rivers.

Buffalo (n.) A very large and savage species of the same genus (B. Caffer) found in South Africa; -- called also Cape buffalo.

Buffalo (n.) Any species of wild ox.

Buffalo (n.) The bison of North America.

Buffalo (n.) A buffalo robe. See Buffalo robe, below.

Buffalo (n.) The buffalo fish. See Buffalo fish, below.

Buffel duck () A small duck (Charitonetta albeola); the spirit duck, or butterball. The head of the male is covered with numerous elongated feathers, and thus appears large. Called also bufflehead.

Buffer (n.) An elastic apparatus or fender, for deadening the jar caused by the collision of bodies; as, a buffer at the end of a railroad car.

Buffer (n.) A pad or cushion forming the end of a fender, which receives the blow; -- sometimes called buffing apparatus.

Buffer (n.) One who polishes with a buff.

Buffer (n.) A wheel for buffing; a buff.

Buffer (n.) A good-humored, slow-witted fellow; -- usually said of an elderly man.

Bufferhead (n.) The head of a buffer, which recieves the concussion, in railroad carriages.

Buffet (n.) A cupboard or set of shelves, either movable or fixed at one side of a room, for the display of plate, china, etc., a sideboard.

Buffet (n.) A counter for refreshments; a restaurant at a railroad station, or place of public gathering.

Buffet (v. i.) A blow with the hand; a slap on the face; a cuff.

Buffet (v. i.) A blow from any source, or that which affects like a blow, as the violence of winds or waves; a stroke; an adverse action; an affliction; a trial; adversity.

Buffet (v. i.) A small stool; a stool for a buffet or counter.

Buffeted (imp. & p. p.) of Buffet

Buffeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buffet

Buffet (v. t.) To strike with the hand or fist; to box; to beat; to cuff; to slap.

Buffet (v. t.) To affect as with blows; to strike repeatedly; to strive with or contend against; as, to buffet the billows.

Buffet (v. t.) To deaden the sound of (bells) by muffling the clapper.

Buffet (v. i.) To exercise or play at boxing; to strike; to smite; to strive; to contend.

Buffet (v. i.) To make one's way by blows or struggling.

Buffeter (n.) One who buffets; a boxer.

Buffeting (n.) A striking with the hand.

Buffeting (n.) A succession of blows; continued violence, as of winds or waves; afflictions; adversity.

Buffin (n.) A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns.

Buffing apparatus () See Buffer, 1.

Buffle (n.) The buffalo.

Buffle (v. i.) To puzzle; to be at a loss.

Bufflehead (n.) One who has a large head; a heavy, stupid fellow.

Bufflehead (n.) The buffel duck. See Buffel duck.

Buffle-headed (a.) Having a large head, like a buffalo; dull; stupid; blundering.

Buffo (n.masc.) The comic actor in an opera.

Buffoon (n.) A man who makes a practice of amusing others by low tricks, antic gestures, etc.; a droll; a mimic; a harlequin; a clown; a merry-andrew.

Buffoon (a.) Characteristic of, or like, a buffoon.

Buffoon (v. i.) To act the part of a buffoon.

Buffoon (v. t.) To treat with buffoonery.

Buffooneries (pl. ) of Buffoonery

Buffoonery (n.) The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculous pranks, vulgar tricks and postures.

Buffoonish (a.) Like a buffoon; consisting in low jests or gestures.

Buffoonism (n.) The practices of a buffoon; buffoonery.

Buffoonly (a.) Low; vulgar.

Buffy (a.) Resembling, or characterized by, buff.

Bufo (n.) A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads.

Bufonite (n.) An old name for a fossil consisting of the petrified teeth and palatal bones of fishes belonging to the family of Pycnodonts (thick teeth), whose remains occur in the oolite and chalk formations; toadstone; -- so named from a notion that it was originally formed in the head of a toad.

Bug (n.) A bugbear; anything which terrifies.

Bug (n.) A general name applied to various insects belonging to the Hemiptera; as, the squash bug; the chinch bug, etc.

Bug (n.) An insect of the genus Cimex, especially the bedbug (C. lectularius). See Bedbug.

Bug (n.) One of various species of Coleoptera; as, the ladybug; potato bug, etc.; loosely, any beetle.

Bug (n.) One of certain kinds of Crustacea; as, the sow bug; pill bug; bait bug; salve bug, etc.

Bugaboo (n.) Alt. of Bugbear

Bugbear (n.) Something frightful, as a specter; anything imaginary that causes needless fright; something used to excite needless fear; also, something really dangerous, used to frighten children, etc.

Bugbane (n.) A perennial white-flowered herb of the order Ranunculaceae and genus Cimiciguga; bugwort. There are several species.

Bugbear (n.) Same as Bugaboo.

Bugbear (a.) Causing needless fright.

Bugbear (v. t.) To alarm with idle phantoms.

Bugfish (n.) The menhaden.

Bugger (n.) One guilty of buggery or unnatural vice; a sodomite.

Bugger (n.) A wretch; -- sometimes used humorously or in playful disparagement.

Buggery (n.) Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy.

Bugginess (a.) The state of being infested with bugs.

Buggy (a.) Infested or abounding with bugs.

Buggies (pl. ) of Buggy

Buggy (n.) A light one horse two-wheeled vehicle.

Buggy (n.) A light, four-wheeled vehicle, usually with one seat, and with or without a calash top.

Bugle (n.) A sort of wild ox; a buffalo.

Bugle (n.) A horn used by hunters.

Bugle (n.) A copper instrument of the horn quality of tone, shorter and more conical that the trumpet, sometimes keyed; formerly much used in military bands, very rarely in the orchestra; now superseded by the cornet; -- called also the Kent bugle.

Bugle (n.) An elongated glass bead, of various colors, though commonly black.

Bugle (a.) Jet black.

Bugle (n.) A plant of the genus Ajuga of the Mint family, a native of the Old World.

Bugled (a.) Ornamented with bugles.

Bugle horn () A bugle.

Bugle horn () A drinking vessel made of horn.

Bugler (n.) One who plays on a bugle.

Bugleweed (n.) A plant of the Mint family and genus Lycopus; esp. L. Virginicus, which has mild narcotic and astringent properties, and is sometimes used as a remedy for hemorrhage.

Buglosses (pl. ) of Bugloss

Bugloss (n.) A plant of the genus Anchusa, and especially the A. officinalis, sometimes called alkanet; oxtongue.

Bugwort (n.) Bugbane.

Buhl (n.) Alt. of Buhlwork

Buhlwork (n.) Decorative woodwork in which tortoise shell, yellow metal, white metal, etc., are inlaid, forming scrolls, cartouches, etc.

Buhlbuhl (n.) See Bulbul.

Buhrstone (n.) A cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones.

Built (imp. & p. p.) of Build

Building (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Build

Builded (imp. & p. p.) of Build

Build (v. t.) To erect or construct, as an edifice or fabric of any kind; to form by uniting materials into a regular structure; to fabricate; to make; to raise.

Build (v. t.) To raise or place on a foundation; to form, establish, or produce by using appropriate means.

Build (v. t.) To increase and strengthen; to increase the power and stability of; to settle, or establish, and preserve; -- frequently with up; as, to build up one's constitution.

Build (v. i.) To exercise the art, or practice the business, of building.

Build (v. i.) To rest or depend, as on a foundation; to ground one's self or one's hopes or opinions upon something deemed reliable; to rely; as, to build on the opinions or advice of others.

Build (n.) Form or mode of construction; general figure; make; as, the build of a ship.

Builder (n.) One who builds; one whose occupation is to build, as a carpenter, a shipwright, or a mason.

Building (n.) The act of constructing, erecting, or establishing.

Building (n.) The art of constructing edifices, or the practice of civil architecture.

Building (n.) That which is built; a fabric or edifice constructed, as a house, a church, etc.

Built (n.) Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship.

Built (a.) Formed; shaped; constructed; made; -- often used in composition and preceded by the word denoting the form; as, frigate-built, clipper-built, etc.

Buke muslin () See Book muslin.

Bukshish (n.) See Backsheesh.

Bulau (n.) An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii), somewhat like a rat in appearance, but allied to the hedgehog.

Bulb (n.) A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or below the ground (usually below), which is strictly a bud, consisting of a cluster of partially developed leaves, and producing, as it grows, a stem above, and roots below, as in the onion, tulip, etc. It differs from a corm in not being solid.

Bulb (n.) A name given to some parts that resemble in shape certain bulbous roots; as, the bulb of the aorta.

Bulb (n.) An expansion or protuberance on a stem or tube, as the bulb of a thermometer, which may be of any form, as spherical, cylindrical, curved, etc.

Bulb (v. i.) To take the shape of a bulb; to swell.

Bulbaceous (n.) Bulbous.

Bulbar (a.) Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertaining to the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbar paralysis.

Bulbed (a.) Having a bulb; round-headed.

Bulbel (n.) A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants.

Bulbiferous (n.) Producing bulbs.

Bulblet (n.) A small bulb, either produced on a larger bulb, or on some aerial part of a plant, as in the axils of leaves in the tiger lily, or replacing the flowers in some kinds of onion.

Bulbose (a.) Bulbous.

Bulbo-tuber (n.) A corm.

Bulbous (n.) Having or containing bulbs, or a bulb; growing from bulbs; bulblike in shape or structure.

Bulbul (n.) The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus). The name is also applied to several other Asiatic singing birds, of the family Timaliidae. The green bulbuls belong to the Chloropsis and allied genera.

Bulbule (n.) A small bulb; a bulblet.

Bulchin (n.) A little bull.

Bulge (n.) The bilge or protuberant part of a cask.

Bulge (n.) A swelling, protuberant part; a bending outward, esp. when caused by pressure; as, a bulge in a wall.

Bulge (n.) The bilge of a vessel. See Bilge, 2.

Bulged (imp. & p. p.) of Bulge

Bulging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bulge

Bulge (v. i.) To swell or jut out; to bend outward, as a wall when it yields to pressure; to be protuberant; as, the wall bulges.

Bulge (v. i.) To bilge, as a ship; to founder.

Bulgy (a.) Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward.

Bulimia (n.) Alt. of Bulimy

Bulimy (n.) A disease in which there is a perpetual and insatiable appetite for food; a diseased and voracious appetite.

Bulimus (n.) A genus of land snails having an elongated spiral shell, often of large size. The species are numerous and abundant in tropical America.

Bulk (n.) Magnitude of material substance; dimensions; mass; size; as, an ox or ship of great bulk.

Bulk (n.) The main mass or body; the largest or principal portion; the majority; as, the bulk of a debt.

Bulk (n.) The cargo of a vessel when stowed.

Bulk (n.) The body.

Bulked (imp. & p. p.) of Bulk

Bulking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bulk

Bulk (v. i.) To appear or seem to be, as to bulk or extent; to swell.

Bulk (v.) A projecting part of a building.

Bulker (n.) A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, in order to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them.

Bulkhead (n.) A partition in a vessel, to separate apartments on the same deck.

Bulkhead (n.) A structure of wood or stone, to resist the pressure of earth or water; a partition wall or structure, as in a mine; the limiting wall along a water front.

Bulkiness (n.) Greatness in bulk; size.

Bulky (a.) Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick; massive; as, bulky volumes.

Bull (n.) The male of any species of cattle (Bovidae); hence, the male of any large quadruped, as the elephant; also, the male of the whale.

Bull (n.) One who, or that which, resembles a bull in character or action.

Bull (n.) Taurus, the second of the twelve signs of the zodiac.

Bull (n.) A constellation of the zodiac between Aries and Gemini. It contains the Pleiades.

Bull (n.) One who operates in expectation of a rise in the price of stocks, or in order to effect such a rise. See 4th Bear, n., 5.

Bull (a.) Of or pertaining to a bull; resembling a bull; male; large; fierce.

Bull (v. i.) To be in heat; to manifest sexual desire as cows do.

Bull (v. t.) To endeavor to raise the market price of; as, to bull railroad bonds; to bull stocks; to bull Lake Shore; to endeavor to raise prices in; as, to bull the market. See 1st Bull, n., 4.

Bull (v. i.) A seal. See Bulla.

Bull (v. i.) A letter, edict, or respect, of the pope, written in Gothic characters on rough parchment, sealed with a bulla, and dated a die Incarnationis, i. e., from the day of the Incarnation. See Apostolical brief, under Brief.

Bull (v. i.) A grotesque blunder in language; an apparent congruity, but real incongruity, of ideas, contained in a form of expression; so called, perhaps, from the apparent incongruity between the dictatorial nature of the pope's bulls and his professions of humility.

Bullae (pl. ) of Bulla

Bulla (n.) A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing a transparent watery fluid.

Bulla (n.) The ovoid prominence below the opening of the ear in the skulls of many animals; as, the tympanic or auditory bulla.

Bulla (n.) A leaden seal for a document; esp. the round leaden seal attached to the papal bulls, which has on one side a representation of St. Peter and St. Paul, and on the other the name of the pope who uses it.

Bulla (n.) A genus of marine shells. See Bubble shell.

Bullace (n.) A small European plum (Prunus communis, var. insitita). See Plum.

Bullace (n.) The bully tree.

Bullantic (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, papal bulls.

Bullary (n.) A collection of papal bulls.

Bullaries (pl. ) of Bullary

Bullary (n.) A place for boiling or preparing salt; a boilery.

Bullate (a.) Appearing as if blistered; inflated; puckered.

Bullbeggar (n.) Something used or suggested to produce terror, as in children or persons of weak mind; a bugbear.

Bull brier () A species of Smilax (S. Pseudo-China) growing from New Jersey to the Gulf of Mexico, which has very large tuberous and farinaceous rootstocks, formerly used by the Indians for a sort of bread, and by the negroes as an ingredient in making beer; -- called also bamboo brier and China brier.

Bullcomber (n.) A scaraboid beetle; esp. the Typhaeus vulgaris of Europe.

Bulldog (n.) A variety of dog, of remarkable ferocity, courage, and tenacity of grip; -- so named, probably, from being formerly employed in baiting bulls.

Bulldog (n.) A refractory material used as a furnace lining, obtained by calcining the cinder or slag from the puddling furnace of a rolling mill.

Bulldog (a.) Characteristic of, or like, a bulldog; stubborn; as, bulldog courage; bulldog tenacity.

Bulldozed (imp. & p. p.) of Bulldoze

Bulldozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bulldoze

Bulldoze (v. t.) To intimidate; to restrain or coerce by intimidation or violence; -- used originally of the intimidation of negro voters, in Louisiana.

Bulldozer (n.) One who bulldozes.

Bulled (a.) Swollen.

Bullen-bullen (n.) The lyre bird.

Bullen-nail (n.) A nail with a round head and short shank, tinned and lacquered.

Bullet (n.) A small ball.

Bullet (n.) A missile, usually of lead, and round or elongated in form, to be discharged from a rifle, musket, pistol, or other small firearm.

Bullet (n.) A cannon ball.

Bullet (n.) The fetlock of a horse.

Bullet-proof (a.) Capable of resisting the force of a bullet.

Bulletin (n.) A brief statement of facts respecting some passing event, as military operations or the health of some distinguished personage, issued by authority for the information of the public.

Bulletin (n.) Any public notice or announcement, especially of news recently received.

Bulletin (n.) A periodical publication, especially one containing the proceeding of a society.

Bullfaced (a.) Having a large face.

Bullfeast (n.) See Bullfight.

Bullfight (n.) Alt. of Bullfighting

Bullfighting (n.) A barbarous sport, of great antiquity, in which men torment, and fight with, a bull or bulls in an arena, for public amusement, -- still popular in Spain.

Bullfinch (n.) A bird of the genus Pyrrhula and other related genera, especially the P. vulgaris / rubicilla, a bird of Europe allied to the grosbeak, having the breast, cheeks, and neck, red.

Bullfist (n.) Alt. of Bullfice

Bullfice (n.) A kind of fungus. See Puffball.

Bull fly (n.) Alt. of Bullfly

Bullfly (n.) Any large fly troublesome to cattle, as the gadflies and breeze flies.

Bullfrog (n.) A very large species of frog (Rana Catesbiana), found in North America; -- so named from its loud bellowing in spring.

Bullhead (n.) A fresh-water fish of many species, of the genus Uranidea, esp. U. gobio of Europe, and U. Richardsoni of the United States; -- called also miller's thumb.

Bullhead (n.) In America, several species of Amiurus; -- called also catfish, horned pout, and bullpout.

Bullhead (n.) A marine fish of the genus Cottus; the sculpin.

Bullhead (n.) The black-bellied plover (Squatarola helvetica); -- called also beetlehead.

Bullhead (n.) The golden plover.

Bullhead (n.) A stupid fellow; a lubber.

Bullhead (n.) A small black water insect.

Bullheaded (a.) Having a head like that of a bull. Fig.: Headstrong; obstinate; dogged.

Bullion (n.) Uncoined gold or silver in the mass.

Bullion (n.) Base or uncurrent coin.

Bullion (n.) Showy metallic ornament, as of gold, silver, or copper, on bridles, saddles, etc.

Bullion (n.) Heavy twisted fringe, made of fine gold or silver wire and used for epaulets; also, any heavy twisted fringe whose cords are prominent.

Bullionist (n.) An advocate for a metallic currency, or a paper currency always convertible into gold.

Bullirag (n.) To intimidate by bullying; to rally contemptuously; to badger.

Bullish (a.) Partaking of the nature of a bull, or a blunder.

Bullist (n.) A writer or drawer up of papal bulls.

Bullition (v. i.) The action of boiling; boiling. [Obs.] See Ebullition.

Bull-necked (a.) Having a short and thick neck like that of a bull.

Bullock (n.) A young bull, or any male of the ox kind.

Bullock (n.) An ox, steer, or stag.

Bullock (v. t.) To bully.

Bullock's-eye (n.) See Bull's-eye, 3.

Bullon (n.) A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis).

Bullpout (n.) See Bullhead, 1 (b).

Bull's-eye (n.) A small circular or oval wooden block without sheaves, having a groove around it and a hole through it, used for connecting rigging.

Bull's-eye (n.) A small round cloud, with a ruddy center, supposed by sailors to portend a storm.

Bull's-eye (n.) A small thick disk of glass inserted in a deck, roof, floor, ship's side, etc., to let in light.

Bull's-eye (n.) A circular or oval opening for air or light.

Bull's-eye (n.) A lantern, with a thick glass lens on one side for concentrating the light on any object; also, the lens itself.

Bull's-eye (n.) Aldebaran, a bright star in the eye of Taurus or the Bull.

Bull's-eye (n.) The center of a target.

Bull's-eye (n.) A thick knob or protuberance left on glass by the end of the pipe through which it was blown.

Bull's-eye (n.) A small and thick old-fashioned watch.

Bull's-nose (n.) An external angle when obtuse or rounded.

Bull terrier () A breed of dogs obtained by crossing the bulldog and the terrier.

Bull trout () In England, a large salmon trout of several species, as Salmo trutta and S. Cambricus, which ascend rivers; -- called also sea trout.

Bull trout () Salvelinus malma of California and Oregon; -- called also Dolly Varden trout and red-spotted trout.

Bull trout () The huso or salmon of the Danube.

Bullweed (n.) Knapweed.

Bullwort (n.) See Bishop's-weed.

Bullies (pl. ) of Bully

Bully (n.) A noisy, blustering fellow, more insolent than courageous; one who is threatening and quarrelsome; an insolent, tyrannical fellow.

Bully (n.) A brisk, dashing fellow.

Bully (a.) Jovial and blustering; dashing.

Bully (a.) Fine; excellent; as, a bully horse.

Bullied (imp. & p. p.) of Bully

Bullying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bully

Bully (v. t.) To intimidate with threats and by an overbearing, swaggering demeanor; to act the part of a bully toward.

Bully (v. i.) To act as a bully.

Bullyrag (v. t.) Same as Bullirag.

Bullyrock (n.) A bully.

Bully tree () The name of several West Indian trees of the order Sapotaceae, as Dipholis nigra and species of Sapota and Mimusops. Most of them yield a substance closely resembling gutta-percha.

Bulrush (n.) A kind of large rush, growing in wet land or in water.

Bulse (n.) A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc.

Bultel (n.) A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran.

Bulti (n.) Same as Bolty.

Bultow (n.) A trawl; a boulter; the mode of fishing with a boulter or spiller.

Bulwark (n.) A rampart; a fortification; a bastion or outwork.

Bulwark (n.) That which secures against an enemy, or defends from attack; any means of defense or protection.

Bulwark (n.) The sides of a ship above the upper deck.

Bulwarked (imp. & p. p.) of Bulwark

Bulwarking (n.) of Bulwark

Bulwark (v. t.) To fortify with, or as with, a rampart or wall; to secure by fortification; to protect.

Bum (n.) The buttock.

Bummed (imp. & p. p.) of Bum

Bumming (n.) of Bum

Bum (v. i.,) To make murmuring or humming sound.

Bum (n.) A humming noise.

Bumbailiff (n.) See Bound bailiff, under Bound, a.

Bumbard () See Bombard.

Bumbarge (n.) See Bumboat.

Bumbast () See Bombast.

Bumbeloes (pl. ) of Bumbelo

Bumbelo (n.) A glass used in subliming camphor.

Bumble (n.) The bittern.

Bumble (v. i.) To make a hollow or humming noise, like that of a bumblebee; to cry as a bittern.

Bumblebee (n.) A large bee of the genus Bombus, sometimes called humblebee; -- so named from its sound.

Bumboat (n.) A clumsy boat, used for conveying provisions, fruit, etc., for sale, to vessels lying in port or off shore.

Bumkin (n.) A projecting beam or boom; as: (a) One projecting from each bow of a vessel, to haul the fore tack to, called a tack bumpkin. (b) One from each quarter, for the main-brace blocks, and called brace bumpkin. (c) A small outrigger over the stern of a boat, to extend the mizzen.

Bummalo (n.) A small marine Asiatic fish (Saurus ophidon) used in India as a relish; -- called also Bombay duck.

Bummer (n.) An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means of support; a dissipated sponger.

Bummery (n.) See Bottomery.

Bumped (imp. & p. p.) of Bump

Bumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bump

Bump (v. t.) To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; to thump; as, to bump the head against a wall.

Bump (v. i.) To come in violent contact with something; to thump.

Bump (n.) A thump; a heavy blow.

Bump (n.) A swelling or prominence, resulting from a bump or blow; a protuberance.

Bump (n.) One of the protuberances on the cranium which are associated with distinct faculties or affections of the mind; as, the bump of veneration; the bump of acquisitiveness.

Bump (n.) The act of striking the stern of the boat in advance with the prow of the boat following.

Bump (v. i.) To make a loud, heavy, or hollow noise, as the bittern; to boom.

Bump (n.) The noise made by the bittern.

Bumper (n.) A cup or glass filled to the brim, or till the liquor runs over, particularly in drinking a health or toast.

Bumper (n.) A covered house at a theater, etc., in honor of some favorite performer.

Bumper (n.) That which bumps or causes a bump.

Bumper (n.) Anything which resists or deadens a bump or shock; a buffer.

Bumpkin (n.) An awkward, heavy country fellow; a clown; a country lout.

Bumptious (a.) Self-conceited; forward; pushing.

Bumptiousness (n.) Conceitedness.

Bun (n.) Alt. of Bunn

Bunn (n.) A slightly sweetened raised cake or bisquit with a glazing of sugar and milk on the top crust.

Bunch (n.) A protuberance; a hunch; a knob or lump; a hump.

Bunch (n.) A collection, cluster, or tuft, properly of things of the same kind, growing or fastened together; as, a bunch of grapes; a bunch of keys.

Bunch (n.) A small isolated mass of ore, as distinguished from a continuous vein.

Bunched (imp. & p. p.) of Bunch

Bunching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bunch

Bunch (v. i.) To swell out into a bunch or protuberance; to be protuberant or round.

Bunch (v. t.) To form into a bunch or bunches.

Bunch-backed (a.) Having a bunch on the back; crooked.

Bunchberry (n.) The dwarf cornel (Cornus Canadensis), which bears a dense cluster of bright red, edible berries.

Bunch grass () A grass growing in bunches and affording pasture. In California, Atropis tenuifolia, Festuca scabrella, and several kinds of Stipa are favorite bunch grasses. In Utah, Eriocoma cuspidata is a good bunch grass.

Bunchiness (n.) The quality or condition of being bunchy; knobbiness.

Bunchy (a.) Swelling out in bunches.

Bunchy (a.) Growing in bunches, or resembling a bunch; having tufts; as, the bird's bunchy tail.

Bunchy (a.) Yielding irregularly; sometimes rich, sometimes poor; as, a bunchy mine.

Buncombe (n.) Alt. of Bunkum

Bunkum (n.) Speech-making for the gratification of constituents, or to gain public applause; flattering talk for a selfish purpose; anything said for mere show.

Bund (n.) League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states.

Bund (n.) An embankment against inundation.

Bunder (n.) A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing of passengers and goods.

Bundesrath (n.) The federal council of the German Empire. In the Bundesrath and the Reichstag are vested the legislative functions. The federal council of Switzerland is also so called.

Bundle (n.) A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope, into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loose package; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of old clothes.

Bundled (imp. & p. p.) of Bundle

Bundling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bundle

Bundle (v. t.) To tie or bind in a bundle or roll.

Bundle (v. t.) To send off abruptly or without ceremony.

Bundle (v. i.) To prepare for departure; to set off in a hurry or without ceremony.

Bundle (v. i.) To sleep on the same bed without undressing; -- applied to the custom of a man and woman, especially lovers, thus sleeping.

Bung (n.) The large stopper of the orifice in the bilge of a cask.

Bung (n.) The orifice in the bilge of a cask through which it is filled; bunghole.

Bung (n.) A sharper or pickpocket.

Bunged (imp. & p. p.) of Bung

Bunging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bung

Bung (v. t.) To stop, as the orifice in the bilge of a cask, with a bung; to close; -- with up.

Bungalow (n.) A thatched or tiled house or cottage, of a single story, usually surrounded by a veranda.

Bungarum (n.) A venomous snake of India, of the genus Bungarus, allied to the cobras, but without a hood.

Bunghole (n.) See Bung, n., 2.

Bungled (imp. & p. p.) of Bungle

Bungling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bungle

Bungle (v. i.) To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner.

Bungle (v. t.) To make or mend clumsily; to manage awkwardly; to botch; -- sometimes with up.

Bungle (n.) A clumsy or awkward performance; a botch; a gross blunder.

Bungler (n.) A clumsy, awkward workman; one who bungles.

Bungling (a.) Unskillful; awkward; clumsy; as, a bungling workman.

Bunglingly (adv.) Clumsily; awkwardly.

Bungo (n.) A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kind of boat used in the Southern United States.

Bunion (n.) Same as Bunyon.

Bunk (n.) A wooden case or box, which serves for a seat in the daytime and for a bed at night.

Bunk (n.) One of a series of berths or bed places in tiers.

Bunk (n.) A piece of wood placed on a lumberman's sled to sustain the end of heavy timbers.

Bunked (imp. & p. p.) of Bunk

Bunking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bunk

Bunk (v. i.) To go to bed in a bunk; -- sometimes with in.

Bunker (n.) A sort of chest or box, as in a window, the lid of which serves for a seat.

Bunker (n.) A large bin or similar receptacle; as, a coal bunker.

Bunko (n.) A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by a sham lottery.

Bunkum (n.) See Buncombe.

Bunn (n.) See Bun.

Bunnian (n.) See Bunyon.

Bunny (n.) A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it or going out from it.

Bunny (n.) A pet name for a rabbit or a squirrel.

Bunodonta (n. pl.) Alt. of Bunodonts

Bunodonts (n. pl.) A division of the herbivorous mammals including the hogs and hippopotami; -- so called because the teeth are tuberculated.

Bunsen's battery () Alt. of Bunsen's burner

Bunsen's burner () See under Battery, and Burner.

Bunt (n.) A fungus (Ustilago foetida) which affects the ear of cereals, filling the grains with a fetid dust; -- also called pepperbrand.

Bunt (n.) The middle part, cavity, or belly of a sail; the part of a furled sail which is at the center of the yard.

Bunt (v. i.) To swell out; as, the sail bunts.

Bunt (v. t. & i.) To strike or push with the horns or head; to butt; as, the ram bunted the boy.

Bunter (n.) A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgar woman.

Bunting (n.) A bird of the genus Emberiza, or of an allied genus, related to the finches and sparrows (family Fringillidae).

Bunting (n.) Alt. of Buntine

Buntine (n.) A thin woolen stuff, used chiefly for flags, colors, and ships' signals.

Buntline (n.) One of the ropes toggled to the footrope of a sail, used to haul up to the yard the body of the sail when taking it in.

Bunyon (n.) Alt. of Bunion

Bunion (n.) An enlargement and inflammation of a small membranous sac (one of the bursae muscosae), usually occurring on the first joint of the great toe.

Buoy (n.) A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark a channel or to point out the position of something beneath the water, as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc.

Buoyed (imp. & p. p.) of Buoy

Buoying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buoy

Buoy (v. t.) To keep from sinking in a fluid, as in water or air; to keep afloat; -- with up.

Buoy (v. t.) To support or sustain; to preserve from sinking into ruin or despondency.

Buoy (v. t.) To fix buoys to; to mark by a buoy or by buoys; as, to buoy an anchor; to buoy or buoy off a channel.

Buoy (v. i.) To float; to rise like a buoy.

Buoyage (n.) Buoys, taken collectively; a series of buoys, as for the guidance of vessels into or out of port; the providing of buoys.

Buoyance (n.) Buoyancy.

Buoyancies (pl. ) of Buoyancy

Buoyancy (n.) The property of floating on the surface of a liquid, or in a fluid, as in the atmosphere; specific lightness, which is inversely as the weight compared with that of an equal volume of water.

Buoyancy (n.) The upward pressure exerted upon a floating body by a fluid, which is equal to the weight of the body; hence, also, the weight of a floating body, as measured by the volume of fluid displaced.

Buoyancy (n.) Cheerfulness; vivacity; liveliness; sprightliness; -- the opposite of heaviness; as, buoyancy of spirits.

Buoyant (v. t. & i.) Having the quality of rising or floating in a fluid; tending to rise or float; as, iron is buoyant in mercury.

Buoyant (v. t. & i.) Bearing up, as a fluid; sustaining another body by being specifically heavier.

Buoyant (v. t. & i.) Light-hearted; vivacious; cheerful; as, a buoyant disposition; buoyant spirits.

Buprestidan (n.) One of a tribe of beetles, of the genus Buprestis and allied genera, usually with brilliant metallic colors. The larvae are usually borers in timber, or beneath bark, and are often very destructive to trees.

Bur (n.) Alt. of Burr

Burr (n.) Any rough or prickly envelope of the seeds of plants, whether a pericarp, a persistent calyx, or an involucre, as of the chestnut and burdock. Also, any weed which bears burs.

Burr (n.) The thin ridge left by a tool in cutting or shaping metal. See Burr, n., 2.

Burr (n.) A ring of iron on a lance or spear. See Burr, n., 4.

Burr (n.) The lobe of the ear. See Burr, n., 5.

Burr (n.) The sweetbread.

Burr (n.) A clinker; a partially vitrified brick.

Burr (n.) A small circular saw.

Burr (n.) A triangular chisel.

Burr (n.) A drill with a serrated head larger than the shank; -- used by dentists.

Burr (n.) The round knob of an antler next to a deer's head.

Burbolt (n.) A birdbolt.

Burbot (n.) A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose two very small barbels, and a larger one on the chin.

Burdelais (n.) A sort of grape.

Burden (n.) That which is borne or carried; a load.

Burden (n.) That which is borne with labor or difficulty; that which is grievous, wearisome, or oppressive.

Burden (n.) The capacity of a vessel, or the weight of cargo that she will carry; as, a ship of a hundred tons burden.

Burden (n.) The tops or heads of stream-work which lie over the stream of tin.

Burden (n.) The proportion of ore and flux to fuel, in the charge of a blast furnace.

Burden (n.) A fixed quantity of certain commodities; as, a burden of gad steel, 120 pounds.

Burden (n.) A birth.

Burdened (imp. & p. p.) of Burden

Burdening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burden

Burden (v. t.) To encumber with weight (literal or figurative); to lay a heavy load upon; to load.

Burden (v. t.) To oppress with anything grievous or trying; to overload; as, to burden a nation with taxes.

Burden (v. t.) To impose, as a load or burden; to lay or place as a burden (something heavy or objectionable).

Burden (n.) The verse repeated in a song, or the return of the theme at the end of each stanza; the chorus; refrain. Hence: That which is often repeated or which is dwelt upon; the main topic; as, the burden of a prayer.

Burden (n.) The drone of a bagpipe.

Burden (n.) A club.

Burdener (n.) One who loads; an oppressor.

Burdenous (a.) Burdensome.

Burdensome (a.) Grievous to be borne; causing uneasiness or fatigue; oppressive.

Burdock (n.) A genus of coarse biennial herbs (Lappa), bearing small burs which adhere tenaciously to clothes, or to the fur or wool of animals.

Burdon (n.) A pilgrim's staff.

Bureaus (pl. ) of Bureau

Bureaux (pl. ) of Bureau

Bureau (n.) Originally, a desk or writing table with drawers for papers.

Bureau (n.) The place where such a bureau is used; an office where business requiring writing is transacted.

Bureau (n.) Hence: A department of public business requiring a force of clerks; the body of officials in a department who labor under the direction of a chief.

Bureau (n.) A chest of drawers for clothes, especially when made as an ornamental piece of furniture.

Bureaucracy (n.) A system of carrying on the business of government by means of departments or bureaus, each under the control of a chief, in contradiction to a system in which the officers of government have an associated authority and responsibility; also, government conducted on this system.

Bureaucracy (n.) Government officials, collectively.

Bureaucrat (n.) An official of a bureau; esp. an official confirmed in a narrow and arbitrary routine.

Bureaucratic (a.) Alt. of Bureaucratical

Bureaucratical (a.) Of, relating to, or resembling, a bureaucracy.

Bureaucratist (n.) An advocate for , or supporter of, bureaucracy.

Burel (n. & a.) Same as Borrel.

Burette (n.) An apparatus for delivering measured quantities of liquid or for measuring the quantity of liquid or gas received or discharged. It consists essentially of a graduated glass tube, usually furnished with a small aperture and stopcock.

Bur fish () A spinose, plectognath fish of the Allantic coast of the United States (esp. Chilo mycterus geometricus) having the power of distending its body with water or air, so as to resemble a chestnut bur; -- called also ball fish, balloon fish, and swellfish.

Burg (n.) A fortified town.

Burg (n.) A borough.

Burgage (n.) A tenure by which houses or lands are held of the king or other lord of a borough or city; at a certain yearly rent, or by services relating to trade or handicraft.

Burgall (n.) A small marine fish; -- also called cunner.

Burgamot (n.) See Bergamot.

Burganet (n.) See Burgonet.

Burgee (n.) A kind of small coat.

Burgee (n.) A swallow-tailed flag; a distinguishing pennant, used by cutters, yachts, and merchant vessels.

Burgeois (n.) See 1st Bourgeois.

Burgeois (n.) A burgess; a citizen. See 2d Bourgeois.

Burgeon (v. i.) To bud. See Bourgeon.

Burgess (n.) An inhabitant of a borough or walled town, or one who possesses a tenement therein; a citizen or freeman of a borough.

Burgess (n.) One who represents a borough in Parliament.

Burgess (n.) A magistrate of a borough.

Burgess (n.) An inhabitant of a Scotch burgh qualified to vote for municipal officers.

Burgess-ship (n.) The state of privilege of a burgess.

Burggrave (n.) Originally, one appointed to the command of a burg (fortress or castle); but the title afterward became hereditary, with a domain attached.

Burgh (n.) A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland. See Borough.

Burghal (a.) Belonging to a burgh.

Burghbote (n.) A contribution toward the building or repairing of castles or walls for the defense of a city or town.

Burghbrech (n.) The offense of violating the pledge given by every inhabitant of a tithing to keep the peace; breach of the peace.

Burgher (n.) A freeman of a burgh or borough, entitled to enjoy the privileges of the place; any inhabitant of a borough.

Burgher (n.) A member of that party, among the Scotch seceders, which asserted the lawfulness of the burgess oath (in which burgesses profess the true religion professed within the realm), the opposite party being called antiburghers.

Burghermaster (n.) See Burgomaster.

Burghership (n.) The state or privileges of a burgher.

Burghmaster (n.) A burgomaster.

Burghmaster (n.) An officer who directs and lays out the meres or boundaries for the workmen; -- called also bailiff, and barmaster.

Burghmote (n.) A court or meeting of a burgh or borough; a borough court held three times yearly.

Burglar (n.) One guilty of the crime of burglary.

Burglarer (n.) A burglar.

Burglarious (a.) Pertaining to burglary; constituting the crime of burglary.

Burglariously (adv.) With an intent to commit burglary; in the manner of a burglar.

Burglaries (pl. ) of Burglary

Burglary (n.) Breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, in the nighttime, with intent to commit a felony therein, whether the felonious purpose be accomplished or not.

Burgomaster (n.) A chief magistrate of a municipal town in Holland, Flanders, and Germany, corresponding to mayor in England and the United States; a burghmaster.

Burgomaster (n.) An aquatic bird, the glaucous gull (Larus glaucus), common in arctic regions.

Burgonet (n.) A kind of helmet.

Burgoo (n.) A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen.

Burgrass (n.) Grass of the genus Cenchrus, growing in sand, and having burs for fruit.

Burgrave (n.) See Burggrave.

Burgundy (n.) An old province of France (in the eastern central part).

Burgundy (n.) A richly flavored wine, mostly red, made in Burgundy, France.

Burh (n.) See Burg.

Burhel (n.) Alt. of Burrhel

Burrhel (n.) The wild Himalayan, or blue, sheep (Ovis burrhel).

Burial (n.) A grave; a tomb; a place of sepulture.

Burial (n.) The act of burying; depositing a dead body in the earth, in a tomb or vault, or in the water, usually with attendant ceremonies; sepulture; interment.

Burier (n.) One who, or that which, buries.

Burin (n.) The cutting tool of an engraver on metal, used in line engraving. It is made of tempered steel, one end being ground off obliquely so as to produce a sharp point, and the other end inserted in a handle; a graver; also, the similarly shaped tool used by workers in marble.

Burin (n.) The manner or style of execution of an engraver; as, a soft burin; a brilliant burin.

Burinist (n.) One who works with the burin.

Burion (n.) The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacus frontalis); -- called also crimson-fronted bullfinch.

Burked (imp. & p. p.) of Burke

Burking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burke

Burke (v. t.) To murder by suffocation, or so as to produce few marks of violence, for the purpose of obtaining a body to be sold for dissection.

Burke (v. t.) To dispose of quietly or indirectly; to suppress; to smother; to shelve; as, to burke a parliamentary question.

Burkism (n.) The practice of killing persons for the purpose of selling their bodies for dissection.

Burled (imp. & p. p.) of Burl

Burling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burl

Burl (v. t.) To dress or finish up (cloth); to pick knots, burs, loose threads, etc., from, as in finishing cloth.

Burl (n.) A knot or lump in thread or cloth.

Burl (n.) An overgrown knot, or an excrescence, on a tree; also, veneer made from such excrescences.

Burlap (n.) A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also, a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc.

Burler (n.) One who burls or dresses cloth.

Burlesque (a.) Tending to excite laughter or contempt by extravagant images, or by a contrast between the subject and the manner of treating it, as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity; jocular; ironical.

Burlesque (n.) Ludicrous representation; exaggerated parody; grotesque satire.

Burlesque (n.) An ironical or satirical composition intended to excite laughter, or to ridicule anything.

Burlesque (n.) A ludicrous imitation; a caricature; a travesty; a gross perversion.

Burlesqued (imp. & p. p.) of Burlesque

Burlesquing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burlesque

Burlesque (v. t.) To ridicule, or to make ludicrous by grotesque representation in action or in language.

Burlesque (v. i.) To employ burlesque.

Burlesquer (n.) One who burlesques.

Burletta (a.) A comic operetta; a music farce.

Burliness (n.) Quality of being burly.

Burly (a.) Having a large, strong, or gross body; stout; lusty; -- now used chiefly of human beings, but formerly of animals, in the sense of stately or beautiful, and of inanimate things that were huge and bulky.

Burly (a.) Coarse and rough; boisterous.

Burmans (pl. ) of Burman

Burman (n.) A member of the Burman family, one of the four great families Burmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese.

Burman (a.) Of or pertaining to the Burmans or to Burmah.

Bur marigold () See Beggar's ticks.

Burmese (a.) Of or pertaining to Burmah, or its inhabitants.

Burmese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or the natives of Burmah. Also (sing.), the language of the Burmans.

Burned (imp. & p. p.) of Burn

Burnt () of Burn

Burning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burn

Burn (v. t.) To consume with fire; to reduce to ashes by the action of heat or fire; -- frequently intensified by up: as, to burn up wood.

Burn (v. t.) To injure by fire or heat; to change destructively some property or properties of, by undue exposure to fire or heat; to scorch; to scald; to blister; to singe; to char; to sear; as, to burn steel in forging; to burn one's face in the sun; the sun burns the grass.

Burn (v. t.) To perfect or improve by fire or heat; to submit to the action of fire or heat for some economic purpose; to destroy or change some property or properties of, by exposure to fire or heat in due degree for obtaining a desired residuum, product, or effect; to bake; as, to burn clay in making bricks or pottery; to burn wood so as to produce charcoal; to burn limestone for the lime.

Burn (v. t.) To make or produce, as an effect or result, by the application of fire or heat; as, to burn a hole; to burn charcoal; to burn letters into a block.

Burn (v. t.) To consume, injure, or change the condition of, as if by action of fire or heat; to affect as fire or heat does; as, to burn the mouth with pepper.

Burn (v. t.) To apply a cautery to; to cauterize.

Burn (v. t.) To cause to combine with oxygen or other active agent, with evolution of heat; to consume; to oxidize; as, a man burns a certain amount of carbon at each respiration; to burn iron in oxygen.

Burn (v. i.) To be of fire; to flame.

Burn (v. i.) To suffer from, or be scorched by, an excess of heat.

Burn (v. i.) To have a condition, quality, appearance, sensation, or emotion, as if on fire or excessively heated; to act or rage with destructive violence; to be in a state of lively emotion or strong desire; as, the face burns; to burn with fever.

Burn (v. i.) To combine energetically, with evolution of heat; as, copper burns in chlorine.

Burn (v. i.) In certain games, to approach near to a concealed object which is sought.

Burn (n.) A hurt, injury, or effect caused by fire or excessive or intense heat.

Burn (n.) The operation or result of burning or baking, as in brickmaking; as, they have a good burn.

Burn (n.) A disease in vegetables. See Brand, n., 6.

Burn (n.) A small stream.

Burnable (a.) Combustible.

Burned (p. p. & a.) See Burnt.

Burned (p. p.) Burnished.

Burner (n.) One who, or that which, burns or sets fire to anything.

Burner (n.) The part of a lamp, gas fixture, etc., where the flame is produced.

Burnet (n.) A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially, P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet.

Burnettized (imp. & p. p.) of Burnettize

Burnettizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burnettize

Burnettize (v. t.) To subject (wood, fabrics, etc.) to a process of saturation in a solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent decay; -- a process invented by Sir William Burnett.

Burnie (n.) A small brook.

Burniebee (n.) The ladybird.

Burning (a.) That burns; being on fire; excessively hot; fiery.

Burning (a.) Consuming; intense; inflaming; exciting; vehement; powerful; as, burning zeal.

Burning (n.) The act of consuming by fire or heat, or of subjecting to the effect of fire or heat; the state of being on fire or excessively heated.

Burnished (imp. & p. p.) of Burnish

Burnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burnish

Burnish (a.) To cause to shine; to make smooth and bright; to polish; specifically, to polish by rubbing with something hard and smooth; as, to burnish brass or paper.

Burnish (v. i.) To shine forth; to brighten; to become smooth and glossy, as from swelling or filling out; hence, to grow large.

Burnish (n.) The effect of burnishing; gloss; brightness; luster.

Burnisher (n.) One who burnishes.

Burnisher (n.) A tool with a hard, smooth, rounded end or surface, as of steel, ivory, or agate, used in smoothing or polishing by rubbing. It has a variety of forms adapted to special uses.

Burnoose (n.) Alt. of Burnous

Burnous (n.) A cloaklike garment and hood woven in one piece, worn by Arabs.

Burnous (n.) A combination cloak and hood worn by women.

Burnstickle (n.) A stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus).

Burnt (p. p. & a.) Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as with fire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun.

Burr (n.) A prickly seed vessel. See Bur, 1.

Burr (n.) The thin edge or ridge left by a tool in cutting or shaping metal, as in turning, engraving, pressing, etc.; also, the rough neck left on a bullet in casting.

Burr (n.) A thin flat piece of metal, formed from a sheet by punching; a small washer put on the end of a rivet before it is swaged down.

Burr (n.) A broad iron ring on a tilting lance just below the gripe, to prevent the hand from slipping.

Burr (n.) The lobe or lap of the ear.

Burr (n.) A guttural pronounciation of the letter r, produced by trilling the extremity of the soft palate against the back part of the tongue; rotacism; -- often called the Newcastle, Northumberland, or Tweedside, burr.

Burr (n.) The knot at the bottom of an antler. See Bur, n., 8.

Burred (imp. & p. p.) of Burr

Burring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burr

Burr (v. i.) To speak with burr; to make a hoarse or guttural murmur.

Burrel (n.) A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from its smooth, delicious, soft pulp.

Burrel (n.) Same as Borrel.

Burrel fly () The botfly or gadfly of cattle (Hypoderma bovis). See Gadfly.

Burrel shot () A mixture of shot, nails, stones, pieces of old iron, etc., fired from a cannon at short range, in an emergency.

Burring machine () A machine for cleansing wool of burs, seeds, and other substances.

Burr millstone () See Buhrstone.

Burro (n.) A donkey.

Burrock (n.) A small weir or dam in a river to direct the stream to gaps where fish traps are placed.

Burrow (n.) An incorporated town. See 1st Borough.

Burrow (n.) A shelter; esp. a hole in the ground made by certain animals, as rabbits, for shelter and habitation.

Burrow (n.) A heap or heaps of rubbish or refuse.

Burrow (n.) A mound. See 3d Barrow, and Camp, n., 5.

Burrowed (imp. & p. p.) of Burrow

Burrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burrow

Burrow (v. i.) To excavate a hole to lodge in, as in the earth; to lodge in a hole excavated in the earth, as conies or rabbits.

Burrow (v. i.) To lodge, or take refuge, in any deep or concealed place; to hide.

Burrower (n.) One who, or that which, burrows; an animal that makes a hole under ground and lives in it.

Burrstone (n.) See Buhrstone.

Burry (a.) Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as, burry wool.

Bursae (pl. ) of Bursa

Bursa (n.) Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovial sacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposed between tendons and bony prominences.

Bursal (a.) Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursae.

Bursar (n.) A treasurer, or cash keeper; a purser; as, the bursar of a college, or of a monastery.

Bursar (n.) A student to whom a stipend or bursary is paid for his complete or partial support.

Bursarship (n.) The office of a bursar.

-ries (pl. ) of Bursary

Bursary (n.) The treasury of a college or monastery.

Bursary (n.) A scholarship or charitable foundation in a university, as in Scotland; a sum given to enable a student to pursue his studies.

Burschen (pl. ) of Bursch

Bursch (n.) A youth; especially, a student in a german university.

Burse (n.) A purse; also, a vesicle; a pod; a hull.

Burse (n.) A fund or foundation for the maintenance of needy scholars in their studies; also, the sum given to the beneficiaries.

Burse (n.) An ornamental case of hold the corporal when not in use.

Burse (n.) An exchange, for merchants and bankers, in the cities of continental Europe. Same as Bourse.

Burse (n.) A kind of bazaar.

Bursiculate (a.) Bursiform.

Bursiform (a.) Shaped like a purse.

Bursitis (n.) Inflammation of a bursa.

Burst (imp. & p. p.) of Burst

Bursting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burst

Burst (v. i.) To fly apart or in pieces; of break open; to yield to force or pressure, especially to a sudden and violent exertion of force, or to pressure from within; to explode; as, the boiler had burst; the buds will burst in spring.

Burst (v. i.) To exert force or pressure by which something is made suddenly to give way; to break through obstacles or limitations; hence, to appear suddenly and unexpectedly or unaccountably, or to depart in such manner; -- usually with some qualifying adverb or preposition, as forth, out, away, into, upon, through, etc.

Burst (v. t.) To break or rend by violence, as by an overcharge or by strain or pressure, esp. from within; to force open suddenly; as, to burst a cannon; to burst a blood vessel; to burst open the doors.

Burst (v. t.) To break.

Burst (v. t.) To produce as an effect of bursting; as, to burst a hole through the wall.

Burst (n.) A sudden breaking forth; a violent rending; an explosion; as, a burst of thunder; a burst of applause; a burst of passion; a burst of inspiration.

Burst (n.) Any brief, violent exertion or effort; a spurt; as, a burst of speed.

Burst (n.) A sudden opening, as of landscape; a stretch; an expanse.

Burst (n.) A rupture or hernia; a breach.

Bursten () p. p. of Burst, v. i.

Burster (n.) One that bursts.

Burstwort (n.) A plant (Herniaria glabra) supposed to be valuable for the cure of hernia or rupture.

Burt (n.) See Birt.

Burthen (n. & v. t.) See Burden.

Burton (n.) A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys, the weight being suspended to a hook block in the bight of the running part.

Bury (n.) A borough; a manor; as, the Bury of St. Edmond's

Bury (n.) A manor house; a castle.

Buried (imp. & p. p.) of Bury

Burying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bury

Bury (v. t.) To cover out of sight, either by heaping something over, or by placing within something, as earth, etc.; to conceal by covering; to hide; as, to bury coals in ashes; to bury the face in the hands.

Bury (v. t.) Specifically: To cover out of sight, as the body of a deceased person, in a grave, a tomb, or the ocean; to deposit (a corpse) in its resting place, with funeral ceremonies; to inter; to inhume.

Bury (v. t.) To hide in oblivion; to put away finally; to abandon; as, to bury strife.

Burying ground () Alt. of Burying place

Burying place () The ground or place for burying the dead; burial place.

Bus (n.) An omnibus.

Busbies (pl. ) of Busby

Busby (n.) A military headdress or cap, used in the British army. It is of fur, with a bag, of the same color as the facings of the regiment, hanging from the top over the right shoulder.

Buscon (n.) One who searches for ores; a prospector.

Bush (n.) A thicket, or place abounding in trees or shrubs; a wild forest.

Bush (n.) A shrub; esp., a shrub with branches rising from or near the root; a thick shrub or a cluster of shrubs.

Bush (n.) A shrub cut off, or a shrublike branch of a tree; as, bushes to support pea vines.

Bush (n.) A shrub or branch, properly, a branch of ivy (as sacred to Bacchus), hung out at vintners' doors, or as a tavern sign; hence, a tavern sign, and symbolically, the tavern itself.

Bush (n.) The tail, or brush, of a fox.

Bush (v. i.) To branch thickly in the manner of a bush.

Bushed (imp. & p. p.) of Bush

Bushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bush

Bush (v. t.) To set bushes for; to support with bushes; as, to bush peas.

Bush (v. t.) To use a bush harrow on (land), for covering seeds sown; to harrow with a bush; as, to bush a piece of land; to bush seeds into the ground.

Bush (n.) A lining for a hole to make it smaller; a thimble or ring of metal or wood inserted in a plate or other part of machinery to receive the wear of a pivot or arbor.

Bush (n.) A piece of copper, screwed into a gun, through which the venthole is bored.

Bush (v. t.) To furnish with a bush, or lining; as, to bush a pivot hole.

Bushboy (n.) See Bushman.

Bushel (n.) A dry measure, containing four pecks, eight gallons, or thirty-two quarts.

Bushel (n.) A vessel of the capacity of a bushel, used in measuring; a bushel measure.

Bushel (n.) A quantity that fills a bushel measure; as, a heap containing ten bushels of apples.

Bushel (n.) A large indefinite quantity.

Bushel (n.) The iron lining in the nave of a wheel. [Eng.] In the United States it is called a box. See 4th Bush.

Bushelage (n.) A duty payable on commodities by the bushel.

Bushelman (n.) A tailor's assistant for repairing garments; -- called also busheler.

Bushet (n.) A small bush.

Bushfighter (n.) One accustomed to bushfighting.

Bushfighting (n.) Fighting in the bush, or from behind bushes, trees, or thickets.

Bushhammer (n.) A hammer with a head formed of a bundle of square bars, with pyramidal points, arranged in rows, or a solid head with a face cut into a number of rows of such points; -- used for dressing stone.

Bushhammer (v. t.) To dress with bushhammer; as, to bushhammer a block of granite.

Bushiness (n.) The condition or quality of being bushy.

Bushing (n.) The operation of fitting bushes, or linings, into holes or places where wear is to be received, or friction diminished, as pivot holes, etc.

Bushing (n.) A bush or lining; -- sometimes called a thimble. See 4th Bush.

Bushless (a.) Free from bushes; bare.

Bushmen (pl. ) of Bushman

Bushman (n.) A woodsman; a settler in the bush.

Bushman (n.) One of a race of South African nomads, living principally in the deserts, and not classified as allied in race or language to any other people.

Bushment (n.) A thicket; a cluster of bushes.

Bushment (n.) An ambuscade.

Bushranger (n.) One who roams, or hides, among the bushes; especially, in Australia, an escaped criminal living in the bush.

Bushwhacker (n.) One accustomed to beat about, or travel through, bushes.

Bushwhacker (n.) A guerrilla; a marauding assassin; one who pretends to be a peaceful citizen, but secretly harasses a hostile force or its sympathizers.

Bushwhacking (n.) Traveling, or working a way, through bushes; pulling by the bushes, as in hauling a boat along the bushy margin of a stream.

Bushwhacking (n.) The crimes or warfare of bushwhackers.

Bushy (a.) Thick and spreading, like a bush.

Bushy (a.) Full of bushes; overgrowing with shrubs.

Busily (adv.) In a busy manner.

Businesses (pl. ) of Business

Business (n.) That which busies one, or that which engages the time, attention, or labor of any one, as his principal concern or interest, whether for a longer or shorter time; constant employment; regular occupation; as, the business of life; business before pleasure.

Business (n.) Any particular occupation or employment engaged in for livelihood or gain, as agriculture, trade, art, or a profession.

Business (n.) Financial dealings; buying and selling; traffic in general; mercantile transactions.

Business (n.) That which one has to do or should do; special service, duty, or mission.

Business (n.) Affair; concern; matter; -- used in an indefinite sense, and modified by the connected words.

Business (n.) The position, distribution, and order of persons and properties on the stage of a theater, as determined by the stage manager in rehearsal.

Business (n.) Care; anxiety; diligence.

Businesslike (a.) In the manner of one transacting business wisely and by right methods.

Busk (n.) A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or other material, worn in the front of a corset.

Busked (imp. & p. p.) of Busk

Busk (v. t. & i.) To prepare; to make ready; to array; to dress.

Busk (v. t. & i.) To go; to direct one's course.

Busked (a.) Wearing a busk.

Busket (n.) A small bush; also, a sprig or bouquet.

Busket (n.) A part of a garden devoted to shrubs.

Buskin (n.) A strong, protecting covering for the foot, coming some distance up the leg.

Buskin (n.) A similar covering for the foot and leg, made with very thick soles, to give an appearance of elevation to the stature; -- worn by tragic actors in ancient Greece and Rome. Used as a symbol of tragedy, or the tragic drama, as distinguished from comedy.

Buskined (a.) Wearing buskins.

Buskined (a.) Trodden by buskins; pertaining to tragedy.

Busky (a.) See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n.

Buss (n.) A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack.

Bussed (imp. & p. p.) of Buss

Bussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buss

Buss (v. t.) To kiss; esp. to kiss with a smack, or rudely.

Buss (n.) A small strong vessel with two masts and two cabins; -- used in the herring fishery.

Bust (n.) A piece of sculpture representing the upper part of the human figure, including the head, shoulders, and breast.

Bust (n.) The portion of the human figure included between the head and waist, whether in statuary or in the person; the chest or thorax; the upper part of the trunk of the body.

Bustard (n.) A bird of the genus Otis.

Buster (n.) Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree.

Bustled (imp. & p. p.) of Bustle

Bustling (n.) of Bustle

Bustle (v. i.) To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to cause agitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd.

Bustle (n.) Great stir; agitation; tumult from stirring or excitement.

Bustle (n.) A kind of pad or cushion worn on the back below the waist, by women, to give fullness to the skirts; -- called also bishop, and tournure.

Bustler (n.) An active, stirring person.

Bustling (a.) Agitated; noisy; tumultuous; characterized by confused activity; as, a bustling crowd.

Bustoes (pl. ) of Busto

Busto (n.) A bust; a statue.

Busy (a.) Engaged in some business; hard at work (either habitually or only for the time being); occupied with serious affairs; not idle nor at leisure; as, a busy merchant.

Busy (a.) Constantly at work; diligent; active.

Busy (a.) Crowded with business or activities; -- said of places and times; as, a busy street.

Busy (a.) Officious; meddling; foolish active.

Busy (a.) Careful; anxious.

Busied (imp. & p. p.) of Busy

Busying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Busy

Busy (v. t.) To make or keep busy; to employ; to engage or keep engaged; to occupy; as, to busy one's self with books.

Busybodies (pl. ) of Busybody

Busybody (n.) One who officiously concerns himself with the affairs of others; a meddling person.

But (adv. & conj.) Except with; unless with; without.

But (adv. & conj.) Except; besides; save.

But (adv. & conj.) Excepting or excluding the fact that; save that; were it not that; unless; -- elliptical, for but that.

But (adv. & conj.) Otherwise than that; that not; -- commonly, after a negative, with that.

But (adv. & conj.) Only; solely; merely.

But (adv. & conj.) On the contrary; on the other hand; only; yet; still; however; nevertheless; more; further; -- as connective of sentences or clauses of a sentence, in a sense more or less exceptive or adversative; as, the House of Representatives passed the bill, but the Senate dissented; our wants are many, but quite of another kind.

But (prep., adv. & conj.) The outer apartment or kitchen of a two-roomed house; -- opposed to ben, the inner room.

But (n.) A limit; a boundary.

But (n.) The end; esp. the larger or thicker end, or the blunt, in distinction from the sharp, end. See 1st Butt.

Butted (imp. & p. p.) of But

Butting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of But

But (v. i.) See Butt, v., and Abut, v.

Butane (n.) An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, or paraffin, series.

Butcher (n.) One who slaughters animals, or dresses their flesh for market; one whose occupation it is to kill animals for food.

Butcher (n.) A slaughterer; one who kills in large numbers, or with unusual cruelty; one who causes needless loss of life, as in battle.

Butchered (imp. & p. p.) of Butcher

Butchering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Butcher

Butcher (v. t.) To kill or slaughter (animals) for food, or for market; as, to butcher hogs.

Butcher (v. t.) To murder, or kill, especially in an unusually bloody or barbarous manner.

Butchering (n.) The business of a butcher.

Butchering (n.) The act of slaughtering; the act of killing cruelly and needlessly.

Butcherliness (n.) Butchery quality.

Butcherly (a.) Like a butcher; without compunction; savage; bloody; inhuman; fell.

Butcher's broom () A genus of plants (Ruscus); esp. R. aculeatus, which has large red berries and leaflike branches. See Cladophyll.

Butchery (n.) The business of a butcher.

Butchery (n.) Murder or manslaughter, esp. when committed with unusual barbarity; great or cruel slaughter.

Butchery (n.) A slaughterhouse; the shambles; a place where blood is shed.

Butler (n.) An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whose principal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.; the head servant in a large house.

Butlerage (n.) A duty of two shillings on every tun of wine imported into England by merchant strangers; -- so called because paid to the king's butler for the king.

Butlership (n.) The office of a butler.

Butment (n.) A buttress of an arch; the supporter, or that part which joins it to the upright pier.

Butment (n.) The mass of stone or solid work at the end of a bridge, by which the extreme arches are sustained, or by which the end of a bridge without arches is supported.

Butt (v. t.) Alt. of But

But (v. t.) A limit; a bound; a goal; the extreme bound; the end.

But (v. t.) The thicker end of anything. See But.

But (v. t.) A mark to be shot at; a target.

But (v. t.) A person at whom ridicule, jest, or contempt is directed; as, the butt of the company.

But (v. t.) A push, thrust, or sudden blow, given by the head of an animal; as, the butt of a ram.

But (v. t.) A thrust in fencing.

But (v. t.) A piece of land left unplowed at the end of a field.

But (v. t.) A joint where the ends of two objects come squarely together without scarfing or chamfering; -- also called butt joint.

But (v. t.) The end of a connecting rod or other like piece, to which the boxing is attached by the strap, cotter, and gib.

But (v. t.) The portion of a half-coupling fastened to the end of a hose.

But (v. t.) The joint where two planks in a strake meet.

But (v. t.) A kind of hinge used in hanging doors, etc.; -- so named because fastened on the edge of the door, which butts against the casing, instead of on its face, like the strap hinge; also called butt hinge.

But (v. t.) The thickest and stoutest part of tanned oxhides, used for soles of boots, harness, trunks.

But (v. t.) The hut or shelter of the person who attends to the targets in rifle practice.

Butted (imp. & p. p.) of Butt

Butting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Butt

Butt (v. i.) To join at the butt, end, or outward extremity; to terminate; to be bounded; to abut.

Butt (v. i.) To thrust the head forward; to strike by thrusting the head forward, as an ox or a ram. [See Butt, n.]

Butt (v. t.) To strike by thrusting the head against; to strike with the head.

Butt (n.) A large cask or vessel for wine or beer. It contains two hogsheads.

Butt (n.) The common English flounder.

Butte (n.) A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from the general level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiar elevations in the Rocky Mountain region.

Butter (n.) An oily, unctuous substance obtained from cream or milk by churning.

Butter (n.) Any substance resembling butter in degree of consistence, or other qualities, especially, in old chemistry, the chlorides, as butter of antimony, sesquichloride of antimony; also, certain concrete fat oils remaining nearly solid at ordinary temperatures, as butter of cacao, vegetable butter, shea butter.

Buttered (imp. & p. p.) of Butter

Buttering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Butter

Butter (v. t.) To cover or spread with butter.

Butter (v. t.) To increase, as stakes, at every throw or every game.

Butter (n.) One who, or that which, butts.

Butterball (n.) The buffel duck.

Butterbird (n.) The rice bunting or bobolink; -- so called in the island of Jamaica.

Butterbump (n.) The European bittern.

Butterbur (n.) A broad-leaved plant (Petasites vulgaris) of the Composite family, said to have been used in England for wrapping up pats of butter.

Buttercup (n.) A plant of the genus Ranunculus, or crowfoot, particularly R. bulbosus, with bright yellow flowers; -- called also butterflower, golden cup, and kingcup. It is the cuckoobud of Shakespeare.

Butter-fingered (a.) Apt to let things fall, or to let them slip away; slippery; careless.

Butterfish (n.) A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to their slippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of the Atlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, the rock eel, and the kelpfish of New Zealand.

Butterflies (pl. ) of Butterfly

Butterfly (n.) A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera.

Butterine (n.) A substance prepared from animal fat with some other ingredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter.

Butteris (n.) A steel cutting instrument, with a long bent shank set in a handle which rests against the shoulder of the operator. It is operated by a thrust movement, and used in paring the hoofs of horses.

Buttermen (pl. ) of Butterman

Butterman (n.) A man who makes or sells butter.

Buttermilk (n.) The milk that remains after the butter is separated from the cream.

Butternut (n.) An American tree (Juglans cinerea) of the Walnut family, and its edible fruit; -- so called from the oil contained in the latter. Sometimes called oil nut and white walnut.

Butternut (n.) The nut of the Caryocar butyrosum and C. nuciferum, of S. America; -- called also Souari nut.

Butter-scotch (n.) A kind of candy, mainly composed of sugar and butter.

Butterweed (n.) An annual composite plant of the Mississippi valley (Senecio lobatus).

Butterweight (n.) Over weight.

Butterwort (n.) A genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves which secrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to which insects adhere, after which the margin infolds and the insects are digested by the plant. The species are found mostly in the North Temperate zone.

Buttery (a.) Having the qualities, consistence, or appearance, of butter.

Butteries (pl. ) of Buttery

Buttery (n.) An apartment in a house where butter, milk and other provisions are kept.

Buttery (n.) A room in some English colleges where liquors, fruit, and refreshments are kept for sale to the students.

Buttery (n.) A cellar in which butts of wine are kept.

Butt hinge () See 1st Butt, 10.

But-thorn (n.) The common European starfish (Asterias rubens).

Butting (n.) An abuttal; a boundary.

Butting joint () A joint between two pieces of timber or wood, at the end of one or both, and either at right angles or oblique to the grain, as the joints which the struts and braces form with the truss posts; -- sometimes called abutting joint.

Butt joint () A joint in which the edges or ends of the pieces united come squarely together instead of overlapping. See 1st Butt, 8.

Buttock (n.) The part at the back of the hip, which, in man, forms one of the rounded protuberances on which he sits; the rump.

Buttock (n.) The convexity of a ship behind, under the stern.

Button (n.) A knob; a small ball; a small, roundish mass.

Button (n.) A catch, of various forms and materials, used to fasten together the different parts of dress, by being attached to one part, and passing through a slit, called a buttonhole, in the other; -- used also for ornament.

Button (n.) A bud; a germ of a plant.

Button (n.) A piece of wood or metal, usually flat and elongated, turning on a nail or screw, to fasten something, as a door.

Button (n.) A globule of metal remaining on an assay cupel or in a crucible, after fusion.

Buttoned (imp. & p. p.) of Button

Buttoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Button

Button (n.) To fasten with a button or buttons; to inclose or make secure with buttons; -- often followed by up.

Button (n.) To dress or clothe.

Button (v. i.) To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will not button.

Buttonball (n.) See Buttonwood.

Buttonbush (n.) A shrub (Cephalanthus occidentalis) growing by the waterside; -- so called from its globular head of flowers. See Capitulum.

Buttonhole (n.) The hole or loop in which a button is caught.

Buttonhole (v. t.) To hold at the button or buttonhole; to detain in conversation to weariness; to bore; as, he buttonholed me a quarter of an hour.

Buttonmold (n.) A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into a button by covering it with cloth.

Buttons (n.) A boy servant, or page, -- in allusion to the buttons on his livery.

Buttonweed (n.) The name of several plants of the genera Spermacoce and Diodia, of the Madder family.

Buttonwood (n.) The Platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a large tree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called also buttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States, sycamore. The California buttonwood is P. racemosa.

Buttony (a.) Ornamented with a large number of buttons.

Buttress (n.) A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust of an arch, or for ornament and symmetry.

Buttress (n.) Anything which supports or strengthens.

Buttressed (imp. & p. p.) of Buttress

Buttressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buttress

Buttress (v. t.) To support with a buttress; to prop; to brace firmly.

Butt shaft () An arrow without a barb, for shooting at butts; an arrow.

Butt weld () See Butt weld, under Butt.

Buttweld (v. t.) To unite by a butt weld.

Butty (n.) One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore.

Butyl (n.) A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom of hydrogen.

Butylene (n.) Any one of three metameric hydrocarbons, C4H8, of the ethylene series. They are gaseous or easily liquefiable.

Butyraceous (a.) Having the qualities of butter; resembling butter.

Butyrate (n.) A salt of butyric acid.

Butyric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, butter.

Butyrin (n.) A butyrate of glycerin; a fat contained in small quantity in milk, which helps to give to butter its peculiar flavor.

Butyrometer (n.) An instrument for determining the amount of fatty matter or butter contained in a sample of milk.

Butyrone (n.) A liquid ketone obtained by heating calcium butyrate.

Butyrous (a.) Butyraceous.

Buxeous (a.) Belonging to the box tree.

Buxine (n.) An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common box tree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina.

Buxom (a.) Yielding; pliable or compliant; ready to obey; obedient; tractable; docile; meek; humble.

Buxom (a.) Having the characteristics of health, vigor, and comeliness, combined with a gay, lively manner; stout and rosy; jolly; frolicsome.

Bought (imp. & p. p.) of Buy

Buying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buy

Buy (v. t.) To acquire the ownership of (property) by giving an accepted price or consideration therefor, or by agreeing to do so; to acquire by the payment of a price or value; to purchase; -- opposed to sell.

Buy (v. t.) To acquire or procure by something given or done in exchange, literally or figuratively; to get, at a cost or sacrifice; to buy pleasure with pain.

Buy (v. i.) To negotiate or treat about a purchase.

Buyer (n.) One who buys; a purchaser.

Buz (v. & n.) See Buzz.

Buzzed (imp. & p. p.) of Buzz

Buzzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buzz

Buzz (v. i.) To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that made by bees with their wings. Hence: To utter a murmuring sound; to speak with a low, humming voice.

Buzz (v. t.) To sound forth by buzzing.

Buzz (v. t.) To whisper; to communicate, as tales, in an under tone; to spread, as report, by whispers, or secretly.

Buzz (v. t.) To talk to incessantly or confidentially in a low humming voice.

Buzz (v. t.) To sound with a buzz.

Buzz (n.) A continuous, humming noise, as of bees; a confused murmur, as of general conversation in low tones, or of a general expression of surprise or approbation.

Buzz (n.) A whisper; a report spread secretly or cautiously.

Buzz (n.) The audible friction of voice consonants.

Buzzard (n.) A bird of prey of the Hawk family, belonging to the genus Buteo and related genera.

Buzzard (n.) A blockhead; a dunce.

Buzzard (a.) Senseless; stupid.

Buzzardet (n.) A hawk resembling the buzzard, but with legs relatively longer.

Buzzer (n.) One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer.

Buzzingly (adv.) In a buzzing manner; with a buzzing sound.

Buzzsaw () A circular saw; -- so called from the buzzing it makes when running at full speed.

By (pref.) In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along with; as, come and sit by me.

By (pref.) On; along; in traversing. Compare 5.

By (pref.) Near to, while passing; hence, from one to the other side of; past; as, to go by a church.

By (pref.) Used in specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a cabin twenty feet by forty.

By (pref.) Against.

By (pref.) With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force.

By (adv.) Near; in the neighborhood; present; as, there was no person by at the time.

By (adv.) Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by.

By (adv.) Aside; as, to lay by; to put by.

By (a.) Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.

Byard (n.) A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men who drag sledges in coal mines.

By-bidder (n.) One who bids at an auction in behalf of the auctioneer or owner, for the purpose of running up the price of articles.

By-blow (n.) A side or incidental blow; an accidental blow.

By-blow (n.) An illegitimate child; a bastard.

By-corner (n.) A private corner.

By-dependence (n.) An appendage; that which depends on something else, or is distinct from the main dependence; an accessory.

By-drinking (n.) A drinking between meals.

Bye (n.) A thing not directly aimed at; something which is a secondary object of regard; an object by the way, etc.; as in on or upon the bye, i. e., in passing; indirectly; by implication.

Bye (n.) A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye.

Bye (n.) A dwelling.

Bye (n.) In certain games, a station or place of an individual player.

By-election (n.) An election held by itself, not at the time of a general election.

By-end (n.) Private end or interest; secret purpose; selfish advantage.

Bygone (a.) Past; gone by.

Bygone (n.) Something gone by or past; a past event.

By-interest (n.) Self-interest; private advantage.

Byland (n.) A peninsula.

Bylander (n.) See Bilander.

By-lane (n.) A private lane, or one opening out of the usual road.

By-law (n.) A local or subordinate law; a private law or regulation made by a corporation for its own government.

By-law (n.) A law that is less important than a general law or constitutional provision, and subsidiary to it; a rule relating to a matter of detail; as, civic societies often adopt a constitution and by-laws for the government of their members. In this sense the word has probably been influenced by by, meaning secondary or aside.

By-name (n.) A nickname.

Byname (v. t.) To give a nickname to.

By-pass (n.) A by-passage, for a pipe, or other channel, to divert circulation from the usual course.

By-passage (n.) A passage different from the usual one; a byway.

By-past (a.) Past; gone by.

Bypaths (pl. ) of Bypath

Bypath (n.) A private path; an obscure way; indirect means.

By-place (n.) A retired or private place.

Byplay (n.) Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while the main action proceeds.

By-product (n.) A secondary or additional product; something produced, as in the course of a manufacture, in addition to the principal product.

Byre (n.) A cow house.

By-respect (n.) Private end or view; by-interest.

Byroad (n.) A private or obscure road.

Byronic (a.) Pertaining to, or in the style of, Lord Byron.

By-room (n.) A private room or apartment.

Bysmottered (p.a.) Bespotted with mud or dirt.

By-speech (n.) An incidental or casual speech, not directly relating to the point.

By-spell (n.) A proverb.

Byss (n.) See Byssus, n., 1.

Byssaceous (a.) Byssuslike; consisting of fine fibers or threads, as some very delicate filamentous algae.

Byssiferous (a.) Bearing a byssus or tuft.

Byssin (n.) See Byssus, n., 1.

Byssine (a.) Made of silk; having a silky or flaxlike appearance.

Byssoid (a.) Byssaceous.

Byssolite (n.) An olive-green fibrous variety of hornblende.

Byssuses (pl. ) of Byssus

Byssi (pl. ) of Byssus

Byssus (n.) A cloth of exceedingly fine texture, used by the ancients. It is disputed whether it was of cotton, linen, or silk.

Byssus (n.) A tuft of long, tough filaments which are formed in a groove of the foot, and issue from between the valves of certain bivalve mollusks, as the Pinna and Mytilus, by which they attach themselves to rocks, etc.

Byssus (n.) An obsolete name for certain fungi composed of slender threads.

Byssus (n.) Asbestus.

Bystander (n.) One who stands near; a spectator; one who has no concern with the business transacting.

By-street (n.) A separate, private, or obscure street; an out of the way or cross street.

By-stroke (n.) An accidental or a slyly given stroke.

By-turning (n.) An obscure road; a way turning from the main road.

By-view (n.) A private or selfish view; self-interested aim or purpose.

By-walk (n.) A secluded or private walk.

By-wash (n.) The outlet from a dam or reservoir; also, a cut to divert the flow of water.

Byway (n.) A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from the main one.

By-wipe (n.) A secret or side stroke, as of raillery or sarcasm.

Byword (n.) A common saying; a proverb; a saying that has a general currency.

Byword (n.) The object of a contemptuous saying.

Bywork (n.) Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondary business.

Byzant (n.) Alt. of Byzantine

Byzantine (n.) A gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See Bezant.

Byzantian (a. & n.) See Byzantine.

Byzantine (a.) Of or pertaining to Byzantium.

Byzantine (n.) A native or inhabitant of Byzantium, now Constantinople; sometimes, applied to an inhabitant of the modern city of Constantinople.
C () C is the third letter of the English alphabet. It is from the Latin letter C, which in old Latin represented the sounds of k, and g (in go); its original value being the latter. In Anglo-Saxon words, or Old English before the Norman Conquest, it always has the sound of k. The Latin C was the same letter as the Greek /, /, and came from the Greek alphabet. The Greeks got it from the Ph/nicians. The English name of C is from the Latin name ce, and was derived, probably, through the French. Etymologically C is related to g, h, k, q, s (and other sibilant sounds). Examples of these relations are in L. acutus, E. acute, ague; E. acrid, eager, vinegar; L. cornu, E. horn; E. cat, kitten; E. coy, quiet; L. circare, OF. cerchier, E. search.

C () The keynote of the normal or natural scale, which has neither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note of the relative minor scale of the same.

C () C after the clef is the mark of common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths or crotchets); for alla breve time it is written /.

C () The C clef, a modification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, shows that line to be middle C.

C () As a numeral, C stands for Latin centum or 100, CC for 200, etc.

Caaba (n.) The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all Mohammedans must pray.

Caas (n. sing. & pl.) Case.

Cab (n.) A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public vehicle.

Cab (n.) The covered part of a locomotive, in which the engineer has his station.

Cab (n.) A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37) pints.

Cabal (n.) Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala

Cabal (n.) A secret.

Cabal (n.) A number of persons united in some close design, usually to promote their private views and interests in church or state by intrigue; a secret association composed of a few designing persons; a junto.

Cabal (n.) The secret artifices or machinations of a few persons united in a close design; intrigue.

Caballed (imp. & p. p.) of Cabal

Caballing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabal

Cabal (v. i.) To unite in a small party to promote private views and interests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.

Cabala (n.) A kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediaeval Christians, which treats of the nature of god and the mystery of human existence. It assumes that every letter, word, number, and accent of Scripture contains a hidden sense; and it teaches the methods of interpretation for ascertaining these occult meanings. The cabalists pretend even to foretell events by this means.

Cabala (n.) Secret science in general; mystic art; mystery.

Cabalism (n.) The secret science of the cabalists.

Cabalism (n.) A superstitious devotion to the mysteries of the religion which one professes.

Cabalist (n.) One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish traditions.

Cabalistic (a.) Alt. of Cabalistical

Cabalistical (a.) Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an occult meaning; mystic.

Cabalistically (adv.) In a cabalistic manner.

Cabalize (v. i.) To use cabalistic language.

Caballer (n.) One who cabals.

Caballine (a.) Of or pertaining to a horse.

Caballine (n.) Caballine aloes.

Cabaret (n.) A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed.

Cabaret (n.) a type of restaurant where liquor and dinner is served, and entertainment is provided, as by musicians, dancers, or comedians, and providing space for dancing by the patrons; -- similar to a nightclub. The term cabaret is often used in the names of such an establishment.

Cabaret (n.) the type of entertainment provided in a cabaret{2}.

Cabas (n.) A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; hence, a lady's flat workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba.

Cabassou (n.) A species of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and X. hispidus); the tatouay.

Cabbage (n.) An esculent vegetable of many varieties, derived from the wild Brassica oleracea of Europe. The common cabbage has a compact head of leaves. The cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc., are sometimes classed as cabbages.

Cabbage (n.) The terminal bud of certain palm trees, used, like, cabbage, for food. See Cabbage tree, below.

Cabbage (n.) The cabbage palmetto. See below.

Cabbage (v. i.) To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettuce cabbage.

Cabbaged (imp. & p. p) of Cabbage

Cabbaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabbage

Cabbage (v. i.) To purloin or embezzle, as the pieces of cloth remaining after cutting out a garment; to pilfer.

Cabbage (n.) Cloth or clippings cabbaged or purloined by one who cuts out garments.

Cabbler (n.) One who works at cabbling.

Cabbling (n.) The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and wrought into bar iron.

Cabeca (n.) Alt. of Cabesse

Cabesse (n.) The finest kind of silk received from India.

Caber (n.) A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of strength.

Cabezon (n.) A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the sculpin.

Cabiai (n.) The capybara. See Capybara.

Cabin (n.) A cottage or small house; a hut.

Cabin (n.) A small room; an inclosed place.

Cabin (n.) A room in ship for officers or passengers.

Cabined (imp. & p. p.) of Cabin

Cabining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabin

Cabin (v. i.) To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.

Cabin (v. t.) To confine in, or as in, a cabin.

Cabinet (n.) A hut; a cottage; a small house.

Cabinet (n.) A small room, or retired apartment; a closet.

Cabinet (n.) A private room in which consultations are held.

Cabinet (n.) The advisory council of the chief executive officer of a nation; a cabinet council.

Cabinet (n.) A set of drawers or a cupboard intended to contain articles of value. Hence:

Cabinet (n.) A decorative piece of furniture, whether open like an etagere or closed with doors. See Etagere.

Cabinet (n.) Any building or room set apart for the safe keeping and exhibition of works of art, etc.; also, the collection itself.

Cabinet (a.) Suitable for a cabinet; small.

Cabineting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabinet

Cabinet (v. i.) To inclose

Cabinetmaker (n.) One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.

Cabinetmaking (n.) The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household furniture.

Cabinetwork (n.) The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.

Cabirean (n.) One of the Cabiri.

Cabbiri (n. pl.) Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece; -- also called sons of Hephaestus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the art of working metals.

Cabirian (a.) Same as Cabiric.

Cabiric (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.

Cable (n.) A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links.

Cable (n.) A rope of steel wire, or copper wire, usually covered with some protecting or insulating substance; as, the cable of a suspension bridge; a telegraphic cable.

Cable (n.) A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex, rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; -- called also cable molding.

Cable (v. t.) To fasten with a cable.

Cable (v. t.) To ornament with cabling. See Cabling.

Cabled (imp. & p. p.) of Cable

Cabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cable

Cable (v. t. & i.) To telegraph by a submarine cable

Cabled (a.) Fastened with, or attached to, a cable or rope.

Cabled (a.) Adorned with cabling.

Cablegram (n.) A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.

Cablelaid (a.) Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted together to form a cable.

Cablelaid (a.) Twisted after the manner of a cable; as, a cable-laid gold chain.

Cablet (n.) A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.

Cabling (n.) The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows of the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of the height of the shaft.

Cabmen (pl. ) of Cabman

Cabman (n.) The driver of a cab.

Cabob (n.) A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so called in Turkey and Persia.

Cabob (n.) A leg of mutton roasted, stuffed with white herrings and sweet herbs.

Cabob (v. t.) To roast, as a cabob.

Caboched (a.) Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the head of a beast in armorial bearing.

Caboodle (n.) The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually in the phrase the whole caboodle.

Caboose (n.) A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called the galley.

Caboose (n.) A car used on freight or construction trains for brakemen, workmen, etc.; a tool car.

Cabotage (n.) Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.

Cabree (n.) The pronghorn antelope.

Cabrerite (n.) An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt, and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.

Cabrilla (n.) A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock bass and kelp salmon.

Cabriole (n.) A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.

Cabriolet (n.) A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.

Cabrit (n.) Same as Cabree.

Caburn (n.) A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize tackles, etc.

Cacaemia (n.) Alt. of Cachaemia

Cachaemia (n.) A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.

Cacaine (n.) The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.

Cacajao (n.) A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (/ Brachyurus) melanocephala).

Cacao (n.) A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma are prepared.

Cachalot (n.) The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called spermaceti. See Sperm whale.

Cache (n.) A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry.

Cachectic (a.) Alt. of Cachectical

Cachectical (a.) Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies; cachectical blood.

Cachepot (n.) An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal, paper, etc.

Cachet (n.) A seal, as of a letter.

Cachexia (n.) Alt. of Cachexy

Cachexy (n.) A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid process (as cancer or tubercle).

Cachinnation (n.) Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical or maniacal affections.

Cachinnatory (a.) Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.

Cachiri (n.) A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the manioc, and resembling perry.

Cacholong (n.) An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also, a similar variety of opal.

Cachou (n.) A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the breath.

Cachucha (n.) An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembling the bolero.

Cachunde (n.) A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a stomachic and antispasmodic.

Cacique (n.) See Cazique.

Cack (v. i.) To ease the body by stool; to go to stool.

Cackerel (n.) The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered poisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.

Cackled (imp. & p. p.) of Cackle

Cackling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cackle

Cackle (v. i.) To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.

Cackle (v. i.) To laugh with a broken noise, like the cackling of a hen or a goose; to giggle.

Cackle (v. i.) To talk in a silly manner; to prattle.

Cackle (n.) The sharp broken noise made by a goose or by a hen that has laid an egg.

Cackle (n.) Idle talk; silly prattle.

Cackler (n.) A fowl that cackles.

Cackler (n.) One who prattles, or tells tales; a tattler.

Cackling (n.) The broken noise of a goose or a hen.

Cacochymia (n.) Alt. of Cacochymy

Cacochymy (n.) A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body, especially of the blood.

Cacochymic (a.) Alt. of Cacochymical

Cacochymical (a.) Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.

Cacodemon (n.) An evil spirit; a devil or demon.

Cacodemon (n.) The nightmare.

Cacodoxical (a.) Heretical.

Cacodoxy (n.) Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy.

Cacodyl (n.) Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4, spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable odor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to the nitrogen compounds called hydrazines.

Cacodylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl.

Cacoethes (n.) A bad custom or habit; an insatiable desire; as, cacoethes scribendi, The itch for writing.

Cacoethes (n.) A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.

Cacogastric (a.) Troubled with bad digestion.

Cacographic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written or spelled.

Cacography (n.) Incorrect or bad writing or spelling.

Cacolet (n.) A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an army.

Cacology (n.) Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words.

Cacomixle (n.) Alt. of Cacomixl

Cacomixtle (n.) Alt. of Cacomixl

Cacomixl (n.) A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of a cat, related to the raccoons. It inhabits Mexico, Texas, and California.

Cacoon (n.) One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.

Cacophonic (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious

Cacophonical (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious

Cacophonous (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious

Cacophonious (a.) Harsh-sounding.

Cacophonies (pl. ) of Cacophony

Cacophony (n.) An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the concurrence of harsh letters or syllables.

Cacophony (n.) A combination of discordant sounds.

Cacophony (n.) An unhealthy state of the voice.

Cacotechny (n.) A corruption or corrupt state of art.

Cacoxene (n.) Alt. of Cacoxenite

Cacoxenite (n.) A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts. The phosphorus seriously injures it as an iron ore.

Cactaceous (a.) Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the prickly pear is a common example.

Cactuses (pl. ) of Cactus

Cacti (pl. ) of Cactus

Cactus (n.) Any plant of the order Cactacae, as the prickly pear and the night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly natives of the warmer parts of America.

Cacuminal (a.) Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.

Cacuminate (v. i.) To make sharp or pointed.

Cad (n.) A person who stands at the door of an omnibus to open and shut it, and to receive fares; an idle hanger-on about innyards.

Cad (n.) A lowbred, presuming person; a mean, vulgar fellow.

Cadastral (a.) Of or pertaining to landed property.

Cadastre (n.) Alt. of Cadaster

Cadaster (n.) An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.

Cadaver (n.) A dead human body; a corpse.

Cadaveric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity.

Cadaverous (a.) Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale; ghastly; as, a cadaverous look.

Cadaverous (a.) Of or pertaining to, or having the qualities of, a dead body.

Cadbait (n.) See Caddice.

Caddice (n.) Alt. of Caddis

Caddis (n.) The larva of a caddice fly. These larvae generally live in cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm.

Caddis (n.) A kind of worsted lace or ribbon.

Caddish (a.) Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.

Caddow (n.) A jackdaw.

Caddies (pl. ) of Caddy

Caddy (n.) A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.

Cade (a.) Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.

Cade (v. t.) To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle; to tame.

Cade (n.) A barrel or cask, as of fish.

Cade (n.) A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean countries.

Cadence (n.) The act or state of declining or sinking.

Cadence (n.) A fall of the voice in reading or speaking, especially at the end of a sentence.

Cadence (n.) A rhythmical modulation of the voice or of any sound; as, music of bells in cadence sweet.

Cadence (n.) Rhythmical flow of language, in prose or verse.

Cadence (n.) See Cadency.

Cadence (n.) Harmony and proportion in motions, as of a well-managed horse.

Cadence (n.) A uniform time and place in marching.

Cadence (n.) The close or fall of a strain; the point of rest, commonly reached by the immediate succession of the tonic to the dominant chord.

Cadence (n.) A cadenza, or closing embellishment; a pause before the end of a strain, which the performer may fill with a flight of fancy.

Cadence (v. t.) To regulate by musical measure.

Cadency (n.) Descent of related families; distinction between the members of a family according to their ages.

Cadene (n.) A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.

Cadent (a.) Falling.

Cadenza (n.) A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a piece, commonly just before the final cadence.

Cader (n.) See Cadre.

Cadet (n.) The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the youngest son.

Cadet (n.) A gentleman who carries arms in a regiment, as a volunteer, with a view of acquiring military skill and obtaining a commission.

Cadet (n.) A young man in training for military or naval service; esp. a pupil in a military or naval school, as at West Point, Annapolis, or Woolwich.

Cadetship (n.) The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a cadetship.

Cadew (n.) Alt. of Cadeworm

Cadeworm (n.) A caddice. See Caddice.

Cadged (imp. & p. p.) of Cadge

Cadging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cadge

Cadge (v. t. & i.) To carry, as a burden.

Cadge (v. t. & i.) To hawk or peddle, as fish, poultry, etc.

Cadge (v. t. & i.) To intrude or live on another meanly; to beg.

Cadge (n.) A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.

Cadger (v. t.) A packman or itinerant huckster.

Cadger (v. t.) One who gets his living by trickery or begging.

Cadger (n.) One who carries hawks on a cadge.

Cadgy (a.) Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also, wanton.

Cadi (n.) An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually the judge of a town or village.

Cadie (n.) Alt. of Caddie

Caddie (n.) A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger.

Cadilesker (n.) A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originally because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who are now tried only by their own officers.

Cadillac (n.) A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly for cooking.

Cadis (n.) A kind of coarse serge.

Cadmean (a.) Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of the alphabet -- /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /. These are called Cadmean letters.

Cadmia (n.) An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.

Cadmian (a.) See Cadmean.

Cadmic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic sulphide.

Cadmium (n.) A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring in some zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable. Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in 1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore.

Cadrans (n.) An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which the angles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.

Cadre (n.) The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff.

Caducary (a.) Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.

Caducean (a.) Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.

Caduceus (n.) The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messenger of the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olive wood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it, and two wings at the top.

Caducibranchiate (a.) With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which the gills do not remain in adult life.

Caducity (n.) Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility.

Caducous () Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, or the gills of a tadpole.

Caduke (a.) Perishable; frail; transitory.

Cady (n.) See Cadie.

Caeca (n. pl.) See Caecum.

Caecal (a.) Of or pertaining to the caecum, or blind gut.

Caecal (a.) Having the form of a caecum, or bag with one opening; baglike; as, the caecal extremity of a duct.

Caecias (n.) A wind from the northeast.

Caecilian (n.) A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Caeciliae or Ophimorpha. See Ophiomorpha.

Caecums (pl. ) of Caecum

Caeca (pl. ) of Caecum

Caecum (n.) A cavity open at one end, as the blind end of a canal or duct.

Caecum (n.) The blind part of the large intestine beyond the entrance of the small intestine; -- called also the blind gut.

Caenozoic (a.) See Cenozoic.

Caen stone () A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen, France.

Caesar (n.) A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Caesar. Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.

Caesarean (a.) Alt. of Caesarian

Caesarian (a.) Of or pertaining to Caesar or the Caesars; imperial.

Caesarism (n.) A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercised by a single person, to whom, as Caesar or emperor, it has been committed by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or support of such a system of government.

Caesious (a.) Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture of gray.

Caesium (n.) A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called from the two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the first element discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most strongly basic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight 132.6.

Caespitose (a.) Same as Cespitose.

Caesuras (pl. ) of Caesura

Caesurae (pl. ) of Caesura

Caesura (n.) A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a foot and commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in the middle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the caesural accent rests, or which is used as a foot.

Caesural (a.) Of or pertaining to a caesura.

Cafe (n.) A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.

Cafenet (n.) Alt. of Cafeneh

Cafeneh (n.) A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is sold.

Caffeic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee.

Caffeine (n.) A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from coffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, and with guaranine from guarana.

Caffetannic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.

Caffila (n.) See Cafila.

Caffre (n.) See Kaffir.

Cafila (n.) Alt. of Cafileh

Cafileh (n.) A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government caravan; a string of pack horses.

Caftan (n.) A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a belt or sash.

Caftan (v. t.) To clothe with a caftan.

Cag (n.) See Keg.

Cage (n.) A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or metal, used for confining birds or other animals.

Cage (n.) A place of confinement for malefactors

Cage (n.) An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as, the cage of a staircase.

Cage (n.) A skeleton frame to limit the motion of a loose piece, as a ball valve.

Cage (n.) A wirework strainer, used in connection with pumps and pipes.

Cage (n.) The box, bucket, or inclosed platform of a lift or elevator; a cagelike structure moving in a shaft.

Cage (n.) The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim.

Cage (n.) The catcher's wire mask.

Caged (imp. & p. p.) of Cage

Caging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cage

Cage (v. i.) To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine.

Caged (a.) Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison.

Cageling (n.) A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird.

Cagit (n.) A kind of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the Philippine Islands.

Cagmag (n.) A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind.

Cagot (n.) One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until 1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They are supposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths.

Cahier (n.) A number of sheets of paper put loosely together; esp. one of the successive portions of a work printed in numbers.

Cahier (n.) A memorial of a body; a report of legislative proceedings, etc.

Cahincic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of a species of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. racemosa; as, cahincic acid.

Cahoot (n.) Partnership; as, to go in cahoot with a person.

Caimacam (n.) The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.

Caiman (n.) See Cayman.

Cainozoic (a.) See Cenozic.

Caique (n.) A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a Levantine vessel of larger size.

Ca ira () The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.

Caird (n.) A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar.

Cairn (n.) A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument.

Cairn (n.) A pile of stones heaped up as a landmark, or to arrest attention, as in surveying, or in leaving traces of an exploring party, etc.

Cairngormstone () A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in Scotland.

Caisson (n.) A chest to hold ammunition.

Caisson (n.) A four-wheeled carriage for conveying ammunition, consisting of two parts, a body and a limber. In light field batteries there is one caisson to each piece, having two ammunition boxes on the body, and one on the limber.

Caisson (n.) A chest filled with explosive materials, to be laid in the way of an enemy and exploded on his approach.

Caisson (n.) A water-tight box, of timber or iron within which work is carried on in building foundations or structures below the water level.

Caisson (n.) A hollow floating box, usually of iron, which serves to close the entrances of docks and basins.

Caisson (n.) A structure, usually with an air chamber, placed beneath a vessel to lift or float it.

Caisson (n.) A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits.

Caitiff (a.) Captive; wretched; unfortunate.

Caitiff (a.) Base; wicked and mean; cowardly; despicable.

Caitiff (n.) A captive; a prisoner.

Caitiff (n.) A wretched or unfortunate man.

Caitiff (n.) A mean, despicable person; one whose character meanness and wickedness meet.

Cajeput (n.) See Cajuput.

Cajoled (imp. & p. p.) of Cajole

Cajoling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cajole

Cajole (v. i.) To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.

Cajolement (n.) The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.

Cajoler (n.) A flatterer; a wheedler.

Cajoleries (pl. ) of Cajolery

Cajolery (n.) A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery.

Cajuput (n.) A highly stimulating volatile inflammable oil, distilled from the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It is greenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.

Cajuputene (n.) A colorless or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.

Cake (n.) A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake.

Cake (n.) A sweetened composition of flour and other ingredients, leavened or unleavened, baked in a loaf or mass of any size or shape.

Cake (n.) A thin wafer-shaped mass of fried batter; a griddlecake or pancake; as buckwheat cakes.

Cake (n.) A mass of matter concreted, congealed, or molded into a solid mass of any form, esp. into a form rather flat than high; as, a cake of soap; an ague cake.

Cake (v. i.) To form into a cake, or mass.

Caked (imp. & p. p.) of Cake

Caking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cake

Cake (v. i.) To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an oven; to coagulate.

Cake (v. i.) To cackle as a goose.

Caking coal () See Coal.

Cal (n.) Wolfram, an ore of tungsten.

Calabar (n.) A district on the west coast of Africa.

Calabarine (n.) An alkaloid resembling physostigmine and occurring with it in the calabar bean.

Calabash (n.) The common gourd (plant or fruit).

Calabash (n.) The fruit of the calabash tree.

Calabash (n.) A water dipper, bottle, bascket, or other utensil, made from the dry shell of a calabash or gourd.

Calaboose (n.) A prison; a jail.

Calade (n.) A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.

Caladium (n.) A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species are cultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiously blotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.

Calaite (n.) A mineral. See Turquoise.

Calamanco (n.) A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked.

Calamander wood () A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel-brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is a species of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros quaesita. Called also Coromandel wood.

Calamar (n.) Alt. of Calamary

Calamary (n.) A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera. There are many species. They have a sack of inklike fluid which they discharge from the siphon tube, when pursued or alarmed, in order to confuse their enemies. Their shell is a thin horny plate, within the flesh of the back, shaped very much like a quill pen. In America they are called squids. See Squid.

Calambac (n.) A fragrant wood; agalloch.

Calambour (n.) A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottled color, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac; -- used by cabinetmakers.

Calamiferous (a.) Producing reeds; reedy.

Calamine (n.) A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.

Calamint (n.) A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family, esp. the C. Nepeta and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.

Calamist (n.) One who plays upon a reed or pipe.

Calamistrate (v. i.) To curl or friz, as the hair.

Calamistration (n.) The act or process of curling the hair.

Calamistrum (n.) A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs of certain spiders (Ciniflonidae), used to curl certain fibers in the construction of their webs.

Calamite (n.) A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general form of plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rush family) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having the stem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite.

Calamitous (a.) Suffering calamity; wretched; miserable.

Calamitous (a.) Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making wretched; wretched; unhappy.

Calamities (pl. ) of Calamity

Calamity (n.) Any great misfortune or cause of misery; -- generally applied to events or disasters which produce extensive evil, either to communities or individuals.

Calamity (n.) A state or time of distress or misfortune; misery.

Calami (pl. ) of Calamus

Calamus (n.) The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes the common rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.

Calamus (n.) A species of Acorus (A. calamus), commonly called calamus, or sweet flag. The root has a pungent, aromatic taste, and is used in medicine as a stomachic; the leaves have an aromatic odor, and were formerly used instead of rushes to strew on floors.

Calamus (n.) The horny basal portion of a feather; the barrel or quill.

Calando (a.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.

Calash (n.) A light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver, and often a movable front, so that it can be used as either an open or a close carriage.

Calash (n.) In Canada, a two-wheeled, one-seated vehicle, with a calash top, and the driver's seat elevated in front.

Calash (n.) A hood or top of a carriage which can be thrown back at pleasure.

Calash (n.) A hood, formerly worn by ladies, which could be drawn forward or thrown back like the top of a carriage.

Calaverite (n.) A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; a telluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.

Calcaneal (a.) Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.

-neums (pl. ) of Calcaneum

-nea (pl. ) of Calcaneum

Calcaneum (n.) One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the great bone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.

Calcar (n.) A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit.

Calcaria (pl. ) of Calcar

Calcar (n.) A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla.

Calcar (n.) A slender bony process from the ankle joint of bats, which helps to support the posterior part of the web, in flight.

Calcar (n.) A spur, or spurlike prominence.

Calcar (n.) A curved ridge in the floor of the leteral ventricle of the brain; the calcar avis, hippocampus minor, or ergot.

Calcarate (a.) Alt. of Calcarated

Calcarated (a.) Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur; spurred.

Calcarated (a.) Armed with a spur.

Calcareo-argillaceous (a.) consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceous earths.

Calcareo-bituminous (a.) Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen.

Calcareo-siliceous (a.) Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.

Calcareous (a.) Partaking of the nature of calcite or calcium carbonate; consisting of, or containing, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.

Calcareousness (n.) Quality of being calcareous.

Calcariferous (a.) Lime-yielding; calciferous

Calcarine (a.) Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.

Calcavella (n.) A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district of Carcavelhos.

Calceated (a.) Fitted with, or wearing, shoes.

Calced (a.) Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or barefooted; as the calced Carmelites.

Calcedon (n.) A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.

Calcedonic (a.) Alt. of Calcedonian

Calcedonian (a.) See Chalcedonic.

Calceiform (a.) Shaped like a slipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper; calceolate.

Calceolaria (n.) A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plants, brought from South America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, often spotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name.

Calceolate (a.) Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.

Calces (n. pl.) See Calx.

Calcic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.

Calciferous (a.) Bearing, producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.

Calcific (a.) Calciferous. Specifically: (Zool.) of or pertaining to the portion of the oviduct which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles.

Calcification (n.) The process of change into a stony or calcareous substance by the deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of bone and of teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.

Calcified (a.) Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts; calcareous.

Calciform (a.) In the form of chalk or lime.

Calcified (imp. & p. p.) of Calcify

Calcifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calcify

Calcify (v. t.) To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion of salts of lime.

Calcify (v. i.) To become changed into a stony or calcareous condition, in which lime is a principal ingredient, as in the formation of teeth.

Calcigenous (a.) Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance on being oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.

Calcigerous (a.) Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cells of the teeth.

Calcimine (n.) A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering of a room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zinc white, and water.

Calcimined (imp. &p. p.) of Calcimine

Calcimining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calcimine

Calcimine (v. t.) To wash or cover with calcimine; as, to calcimine walls.

Calciminer (n.) One who calcimines.

Calcinable (a.) That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.

Calcinate (v. i.) To calcine.

Calcination (n.) The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or rendering it friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of some volatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonate of calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.

Calcination (n.) The act or process of reducing a metal to an oxide or metallic calx; oxidation.

Calcinatory (n.) A vessel used in calcination.

Calciden (imp. & p. p.) of Calcine

Calcining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calcine

Calcine (v. i.) To reduce to a powder, or to a friable state, by the action of heat; to expel volatile matter from by means of heat, as carbonic acid from limestone, and thus (usually) to produce disintegration; as to, calcine bones.

Calcine (v. i.) To oxidize, as a metal by the action of heat; to reduce to a metallic calx.

Calcine (v. i.) To be converted into a powder or friable substance, or into a calx, by the action of heat.

Calciner (n.) One who, or that which, calcines.

Calcispongiae (n. pl.) An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. See Porifera.

Calcite (n.) Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral in its crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. It includes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-spar and calcareous spar.

Calcitrant (a.) Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory.

Calcitrate (v. i. & i.) To kick.

Calcitration (n.) Act of kicking.

Calcium (n.) An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygen forms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable. It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight 40. Symbol Ca.

Calcivorous (a.) Eroding, or eating into, limestone.

Calcographer (n.) One who practices calcography.

Calcographic (a.) Alt. of Calcographical

Calcographical (a.) Relating to, or in the style of, calcography.

Calcography (n.) The art of drawing with chalk.

Calc-sinter (n.) See under Calcite.

Calc-spar (n.) Same as Calcite.

Calc-tufa (n.) See under Calcite.

Calculable (a.) That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.

Calculary (a.) Of or pertaining to calculi.

Calculary (n.) A congeries of little stony knots found in the pulp of the pear and other fruits.

Calculater (imp. & p. p.) of Calculate

Calculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calculate

Calculate (v. i.) To ascertain or determine by mathematical processes, usually by the ordinary rules of arithmetic; to reckon up; to estimate; to compute.

Calculate (v. i.) To ascertain or predict by mathematical or astrological computations the time, circumstances, or other conditions of; to forecast or compute the character or consequences of; as, to calculate or cast one's nativity.

Calculate (v. i.) To adjust for purpose; to adapt by forethought or calculation; to fit or prepare by the adaptation of means to an end; as, to calculate a system of laws for the government and protection of a free people.

Calculate (v. i.) To plan; to expect; to think.

Calculate (v. i.) To make a calculation; to forecast consequences; to estimate; to compute.

Calculated (p. p. & a.) Worked out by calculation; as calculated tables for computing interest; ascertained or conjectured as a result of calculation; as, the calculated place of a planet; the calculated velocity of a cannon ball.

Calculated (p. p. & a.) Adapted by calculation, contrivance. or forethought to accomplish a purpose; as, to use arts calculated to deceive the people.

Calculated (p. p. & a.) Likely to produce a certain effect, whether intended or not; fitted; adapted; suited.

Calculating (a.) Of or pertaining to mathematical calculations; performing or able to perform mathematical calculations.

Calculating (a.) Given to contrivance or forethought; forecasting; scheming; as, a cool calculating disposition.

Calculating (n.) The act or process of making mathematical computations or of estimating results.

Calculation (n.) The act or process, or the result, of calculating; computation; reckoning, estimate.

Calculation (n.) An expectation based on circumstances.

Calculative (a.) Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.

Calculator (n.) One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of the effects.

Calculatory (a.) Belonging to calculation.

Calcule (n.) Reckoning; computation.

Calcule (v. i.) To calculate

Calculi (n. pl.) See Calculus.

Calculous (a.) Of the nature of a calculus; like stone; gritty; as, a calculous concretion.

Calculous (a.) Caused, or characterized, by the presence of a calculus or calculi; a, a calculous disorder; affected with gravel or stone; as, a calculous person.

Calculi (pl. ) of Calculus

Calculus (n.) Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages connected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.

Calculus (n.) A method of computation; any process of reasoning by the use of symbols; any branch of mathematics that may involve calculation.

Caldron (n.) A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Written also cauldron.]

Caleche (n.) See Calash.

Caledonia (n.) The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.

Caledonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.

Caledonian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Caledonia or Scotland.

Caledonite (n.) A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of Caledonia or Scotland.

Calefacient (a.) Making warm; heating.

Calefacient (n.) A substance that excites warmth in the parts to which it is applied, as mustard.

Calefaction (n.) The act of warming or heating; the production of heat in a body by the action of fire, or by communication of heat from other bodies.

Calefaction (n.) The state of being heated.

Calefactive (a.) See Calefactory.

Calefactor (n.) A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.

Calefactory (a.) Making hot; producing or communicating heat.

Calefactory (n.) An apartment in a monastery, warmed and used as a sitting room.

Calefactory (n.) A hollow sphere of metal, filled with hot water, or a chafing dish, placed on the altar in cold weather for the priest to warm his hands with.

Calefied (imp. & p. p.) of Calefy

Calefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calefy

Calefy (v. i.) To make warm or hot.

Calefy (v. i.) To grow hot or warm.

Calembour (n.) A pun.

Calendar (n.) An orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a register of the year with its divisions; an almanac.

Calendar (n.) A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints' days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly according to the varying date of Easter.

Calendar (n.) An orderly list or enumeration of persons, things, or events; a schedule; as, a calendar of state papers; a calendar of bills presented in a legislative assembly; a calendar of causes arranged for trial in court; a calendar of a college or an academy.

Calendared (imp. & p. p.) of Calendar

Calendaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calendar

Calendar (v. t.) To enter or write in a calendar; to register.

Calendarial (a.) Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.

Calendary (a.) Calendarial.

Calender (n.) A machine, used for the purpose of giving cloth, paper, etc., a smooth, even, and glossy or glazed surface, by cold or hot pressure, or for watering them and giving them a wavy appearance. It consists of two or more cylinders revolving nearly in contact, with the necessary apparatus for moving and regulating.

Calender (n.) One who pursues the business of calendering.

Calendered (imp. & p. p.) of Calender

Calendering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calender

Calender (n.) To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth and glossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc.

Calender (n.) One of a sect or order of fantastically dressed or painted dervishes.

Calendographer (n.) One who makes calendars.

Calendrer (n.) A person who calenders cloth; a calender.

Calendric (a.) Alt. of Calendrical

Calendrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a calendar.

Calends (n. pl.) The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.

Calendula (n.) A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendula officinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom on the calends of every month, whence the name.

Calendulin (n.) A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from the marigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.

Calenture (n.) A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics; esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, among sailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the sea to be a green field, and to throw himself into it.

Calenture (v. i.) To see as in the delirium of one affected with calenture.

Calescence (n.) Growing warmth; increasing heat.

Calves (pl. ) of Calf

Calf (n.) The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds. Also, the young of some other mammals, as of the elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, and whale.

Calf (n.) Leather made of the skin of the calf; especially, a fine, light-colored leather used in bookbinding; as, to bind books in calf.

Calf (n.) An awkward or silly boy or young man; any silly person; a dolt.

Calf (n.) A small island near a larger; as, the Calf of Man.

Calf (n.) A small mass of ice set free from the submerged part of a glacier or berg, and rising to the surface.

Calf (n.) The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee.

Calfskin (n.) The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.

Cali (n.) The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu.

Caliber (n.) Alt. of Calibre

Calibre (n.) The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber.

Calibre (n.) The diameter of round or cylindrical body, as of a bullet or column.

Calibre (n.) Fig.: Capacity or compass of mind.

Calibrate (v. i.) To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also, more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of the various standards or graduated instruments.

Calibration (n.) The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of a thermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees; also, more generally, the determination of the true value of the spaces in any graduated instrument.

Calice (n.) See Chalice.

Calicle (n.) One of the small cuplike cavities, often with elevated borders, covering the surface of most corals. Each is formed by a polyp. (b) One of the cuplike structures inclosing the zooids of certain hydroids. See Campanularian.

Calicoes (pl. ) of Calico

Calico (n.) Plain white cloth made from cotton, but which receives distinctive names according to quality and use, as, super calicoes, shirting calicoes, unbleached calicoes, etc.

Calico (n.) Cotton cloth printed with a figured pattern.

Calico (a.) Made of, or having the appearance of, calico; -- often applied to an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of a color strikingly different from its main color.

Calicoback (n.) The calico bass.

Calicoback (n.) An hemipterous insect (Murgantia histrionica) which injures the cabbage and other garden plants; -- called also calico bug and harlequin cabbage bug.

Calicular (a.) Alt. of Caliculate

Caliculate (a.) Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for calycular, calyculate.

Calid (a.) Hot; burning; ardent.

Calidity (n.) Heat.

Caliduct (n.) A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.

Calif (n.) Alt. of Califate

Califate (n.) Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.

Californian (a.) Of or pertaining to California.

Californian (n.) A native or inhabitant of California.

Caligation (n.) Dimness; cloudiness.

Caliginosity (n.) Darkness.

Caliginous (a.) Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure.

Caligo (n.) Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the cornea; also, the speck itself.

Caligraphic (a.) See Calligraphic.

Caligraphy (n.) See Caligraphy.

Calin (n.) An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea canisters.

Calipash (n.) A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. It contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge, much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle.

Calipee (n.) A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell. It contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a light yellowish color, much esteemed as a delicacy.

Calipers (n. pl.) An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts, shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called also caliper compasses, or caliber compasses.

Caliph (n.) Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of Turkey.

Caliphate (n.) The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of the caliphs.

Calippic (a.) Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer.

Calisaya bark () A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the Cinchona Calisaya, and other closely related species.

Calistheneum (n.) A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women and children.

Calisthenis (a.) Of or pertaining to calisthenics.

Calisthenics (n.) The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the body and limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics.

Caliver (n.) An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originally a gun having a regular size of bore.

Calix (n.) A cup. See Calyx.

Calked (imp. &p. p.) of Calk

Calking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calk

Calk (v. t.) To drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a ship, boat, etc.), to prevent leaking. The calking is completed by smearing the seams with melted pitch.

Calk (v. t.) To make an indentation in the edge of a metal plate, as along a seam in a steam boiler or an iron ship, to force the edge of the upper plate hard against the lower and so fill the crevice.

Calk (v. t.) To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red or black chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines, so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which it is laid or held.

Calk (n.) A sharp-pointed piece of iron or steel projecting downward on the shoe of a horse or an ox, to prevent the animal from slipping; -- called also calker, calkin.

Calk (n.) An instrument with sharp points, worn on the sole of a shoe or boot, to prevent slipping.

Calk (v. i.) To furnish with calks, to prevent slipping on ice; as, to calk the shoes of a horse or an ox.

Calk (v. i.) To wound with a calk; as when a horse injures a leg or a foot with a calk on one of the other feet.

Calker (n.) One who calks.

Calker (n.) A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.

Calkin (n.) A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.

Calking (n.) The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or of furnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing.

Called (imp. & p. p.) of Call

Calling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Call

Call (v. t.) To command or request to come or be present; to summon; as, to call a servant.

Call (v. t.) To summon to the discharge of a particular duty; to designate for an office, or employment, especially of a religious character; -- often used of a divine summons; as, to be called to the ministry; sometimes, to invite; as, to call a minister to be the pastor of a church.

Call (v. t.) To invite or command to meet; to convoke; -- often with together; as, the President called Congress together; to appoint and summon; as, to call a meeting of the Board of Aldermen.

Call (v. t.) To give name to; to name; to address, or speak of, by a specifed name.

Call (v. t.) To regard or characterize as of a certain kind; to denominate; to designate.

Call (v. t.) To state, or estimate, approximately or loosely; to characterize without strict regard to fact; as, they call the distance ten miles; he called it a full day's work.

Call (v. t.) To show or disclose the class, character, or nationality of.

Call (v. t.) To utter in a loud or distinct voice; -- often with off; as, to call, or call off, the items of an account; to call the roll of a military company.

Call (v. t.) To invoke; to appeal to.

Call (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to awaken.

Call (v. i.) To speak in loud voice; to cry out; to address by name; -- sometimes with to.

Call (v. i.) To make a demand, requirement, or request.

Call (v. i.) To make a brief visit; also, to stop at some place designated, as for orders.

Call (n.) The act of calling; -- usually with the voice, but often otherwise, as by signs, the sound of some instrument, or by writing; a summons; an entreaty; an invitation; as, a call for help; the bugle's call.

Call (n.) A signal, as on a drum, bugle, trumpet, or pipe, to summon soldiers or sailors to duty.

Call (n.) An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its pastor.

Call (n.) A requirement or appeal arising from the circumstances of the case; a moral requirement or appeal.

Call (n.) A divine vocation or summons.

Call (n.) Vocation; employment.

Call (n.) A short visit; as, to make a call on a neighbor; also, the daily coming of a tradesman to solicit orders.

Call (n.) A note blown on the horn to encourage the hounds.

Call (n.) A whistle or pipe, used by the boatswain and his mate, to summon the sailors to duty.

Call (n.) The cry of a bird; also a noise or cry in imitation of a bird; or a pipe to call birds by imitating their note or cry.

Call (n.) A reference to, or statement of, an object, course, distance, or other matter of description in a survey or grant requiring or calling for a corresponding object, etc., on the land.

Call (n.) The privilege to demand the delivery of stock, grain, or any commodity, at a fixed, price, at or within a certain time agreed on.

Call (n.) See Assessment, 4.

Calla (n.) A genus of plants, of the order Araceae.

Callat (n.) Same as Callet.

Calle (n.) A kind of head covering; a caul.

Caller (n.) One who calls.

Caller (a.) Cool; refreshing; fresh; as, a caller day; the caller air.

Caller (a.) Fresh; in good condition; as, caller berrings.

Callet (n.) A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip.

Callet (v. i.) To rail or scold.

Callid (a.) Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty.

Callidity (n.) Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness.

Calligrapher (n.) One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.

Calligraphic (a.) Alt. of Calligraphical

Calligraphical (a.) Of or pertaining to calligraphy.

Calligraphist (n.) A calligrapher

Calligraphy (n.) Fair or elegant penmanship.

Calling (n.) The act of one who calls; a crying aloud, esp. in order to summon, or to attact the attention of, some one.

Calling (n.) A summoning or convocation, as of Parliament.

Calling (n.) A divine summons or invitation; also, the state of being divinely called.

Calling (n.) A naming, or inviting; a reading over or reciting in order, or a call of names with a view to obtaining an answer, as in legislative bodies.

Calling (n.) One's usual occupation, or employment; vocation; business; trade.

Calling (n.) The persons, collectively, engaged in any particular professions or employment.

Calling (n.) Title; appellation; name.

Calliope (n.) The Muse that presides over eloquence and heroic poetry; mother of Orpheus, and chief of the nine Muses.

Calliope (n.) One of the asteroids. See Solar.

Calliope (n.) A musical instrument consisting of a series of steam whistles, toned to the notes of the scale, and played by keys arranged like those of an organ. It is sometimes attached to steamboat boilers.

Calliope (n.) A beautiful species of humming bird (Stellula Calliope) of California and adjacent regions.

Calliopsis (n.) A popular name given to a few species of the genus Coreopsis, especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas.

Callipash (n.) See Calipash.

Callipee (n.) See Calipee.

Callipers (n. pl.) See Calipers.

Callisection (n.) Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection.

Callisthenic (n.) Alt. of Callisthenics

Callisthenics (n.) See Calisthenic, Calisthenics.

Callithump (n.) A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tin horns, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; a charivari.

Callithumpian (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump.

Callosan (a.) Of the callosum.

Callose (a.) Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots.

Callosities (pl. ) of Callosity

Callosity (n.) A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening and thickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result of continued pressure or friction.

Callosum (n.) The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebral hemispheres. See corpus callosum, under Carpus.

Callot (n.) A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte.

Callous (a.) Hardened; indurated.

Callous (a.) Hardened in mind; insensible; unfeeling; unsusceptible.

Callow (a.) Destitute of feathers; naked; unfledged.

Callow (a.) Immature; boyish; green; as, a callow youth.

Callow (n.) A kind of duck. See Old squaw.

Callus (n.) Same as Callosity

Callus (n.) The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exuded at the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous in consistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unites the fragments into a single piece.

Callus (n.) The new formation over the end of a cutting, before it puts out rootlets.

Calm (n.) Freedom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or absence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or waves; tranquility; stillness; quiet; serenity.

Calmed (imp. & p. p.) of Calm

Calming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calm

Calm (n.) To make calm; to render still or quiet, as elements; as, to calm the winds.

Calm (n.) To deliver from agitation or excitement; to still or soothe, as the mind or passions.

Calm (super.) Not stormy; without motion, as of winds or waves; still; quiet; serene; undisturbed.

Calm (super.) Undisturbed by passion or emotion; not agitated or excited; tranquil; quiet in act or speech.

Calmer (n.) One who, or that which, makes calm.

Calmly (adv.) In a calm manner.

Calmness (n.) The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity; self-repose.

Calmucks (n. pl.) A branch of the Mongolian race inhabiting parts of the Russian and Chinese empires; also (sing.), the language of the Calmucks.

Calmy (n.) Tranquil; peaceful; calm.

Calomel (n.) Mild chloride of mercury, Hg2Cl2, a heavy, white or yellowish white substance, insoluble and tasteless, much used in medicine as a mercurial and purgative; mercurous chloride. It occurs native as the mineral horn quicksilver.

Calorescence (n.) The conversion of obscure radiant heat into light; the transmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility.

Caloric (n.) The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena of heat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used in scientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term for heat.

Caloric (a.) Of or pertaining to caloric.

Caloricity (n.) A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heat necessary to life, that is, the animal heat.

Caloriduct (n.) A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct.

Calorie (n.) The unit of heat according to the French standard; the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes, one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0 to 1. Compare the English standard unit, Foot pound.

Calorifacient (a.) See Calorificient.

Calorifere (n.) An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially by means of hot water circulating in tubes.

Calorifiant (a.) See Calorificient.

Calorific (a.) Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating.

Calorification (n.) Production of heat, esp. animal heat.

Calorificient (a.) Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.

Calorimeter (n.) An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained in bodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, as friction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.

Calorimeter (n.) An apparatus for measuring the proportion of unevaporated water contained in steam.

Calorimetric (a.) Of or pertaining to the process of using the calorimeter.

Calorimetry (n.) Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.

Calorimotor (n.) A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, and producing powerful heating effects.

Calotte (n.) Alt. of Callot

Callot (n.) A close cap without visor or brim.

Callot (n.) Such a cap, worn by English serjeants at law.

Callot (n.) Such a cap, worn by the French cavalry under their helmets.

Callot (n.) Such a cap, worn by the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church.

Calotype (n.) A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitized with iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor, Mr. Fox. Talbot.

Caloyer (n.) A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse of the rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt. Athos.

Calque (v. t.) See 2d Calk, v. t.

Caltrop (n.) Alt. of Caltrap

Caltrap (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants (Tribulus) of the order Zygophylleae, having a hard several-celled fruit, armed with stout spines, and resembling the military instrument of the same name. The species grow in warm countries, and are often very annoying to cattle.

Caltrap (n.) An instrument with four iron points, so disposed that, any three of them being on the ground, the other projects upward. They are scattered on the ground where an enemy's cavalry are to pass, to impede their progress by endangering the horses' feet.

Calumba (n.) The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique. It has an unpleasantly bitter taste, and is used as a tonic and antiseptic.

Calumbin (n.) A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substance from the calumba root.

Calumet (n.) A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smoking tobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube is a long reed often ornamented with feathers.

Calumniated (imp. & p. p.) of Calumniate

Calumniating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calumniate

Calumniate (v. t.) To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or of something disreputable; to slander; to libel.

Calumniate (v. i.) To propagate evil reports with a design to injure the reputation of another; to make purposely false charges of some offense or crime.

Calumniation (n.) False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and false representation of the words or actions of another, with a view to injure his good name.

Calumniator (n.) One who calumniates.

Calumniatory (a.) Containing calumny; slanderous.

Calumnious (a.) Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injurious to reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports.

Calumnies (pl. ) of Calumny

Calumny (n.) False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made or reported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation; slander; detraction.

Calvaria (n.) The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of the domelike upper portion.

Calvary (n.) The place where Christ was crucified, on a small hill outside of Jerusalem.

Calvary (n.) A representation of the crucifixion, consisting of three crosses with the figures of Christ and the thieves, often as large as life, and sometimes surrounded by figures of other personages who were present at the crucifixion.

Calvary (n.) A cross, set upon three steps; -- more properly called cross calvary.

Calved (imp. & p. p.) of Calve

Calving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calve

Calve (v. i.) To bring forth a calf.

Calve (v. i.) To bring forth young; to produce offspring.

Calver (v. i.) To cut in slices and pickle, as salmon.

Calver (v. i.) To crimp; as, calvered salmon.

Calver (v. i.) To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling's flesh will calver.

Calvessnout (n.) Snapdragon.

Calvinism (n.) The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a French theologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or of the so-called calvinistic churches.

Calvinist (n.) A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.

Calvinistic (a.) Alt. of Calvinistical

Calvinistical (a.) Of or pertaining to Calvin, or Calvinism; following Calvin; accepting or Teaching Calvinism.

Calvinize (v. t.) To convert to Calvinism.

Calvish (a.) Like a calf; stupid.

Calxes (pl. ) of Calx

Calces (pl. ) of Calx

Calx (n.) Quicklime.

Calx (n.) The substance which remains when a metal or mineral has been subjected to calcination or combustion by heat, and which is, or may be, reduced to a fine powder.

Calx (n.) Broken and refuse glass, returned to the post.

Calycifloral (a.) Alt. of callyciflorous

Callyciflorous (a.) Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French botanist Candolle.

Calyciform (a.) Having the form or appearance of a calyx.

Calycinal (a.) Alt. of Calycine

Calycine (a.) Pertaining to a calyx; having the nature of a calyx.

Calycle (n.) A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on the outside.

Calycled (a.) Calyculate.

Calycozoa (n. pl.) A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type. The body is cup-shaped with eight marginal lobes bearing clavate tentacles. An aboral sucker serves for attachment. The interior is divided into four large compartments. See Lucernarida.

Calycular (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.

Calyculate (a.) Alt. of Calyculated

Calyculated (a.) Having a set of bracts resembling a calyx.

Calymene (n.) A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age.

Calyon (n.) Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc.

Calypso (n.) A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flower variegated with purple, pink, and yellow. It grows in cold and wet localities in the northern part of the United States. The Calypso borealis is the only orchid which reaches 68 N.

Calyptra (n.) A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form and position, covering each of the small flasklike capsules which contain the spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body.

Calyptriform (a.) Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.

Calyxes (pl. ) of Calyx

Calyces (pl. ) of Calyx

Calyx (n.) The covering of a flower. See Flower.

Calyx (n.) A cuplike division of the pelvis of the kidney, which surrounds one or more of the renal papillae.

Calzoons (n. pl.) Drawers.

Cam (n.) A turning or sliding piece which, by the shape of its periphery or face, or a groove in its surface, imparts variable or intermittent motion to, or receives such motion from, a rod, lever, or block brought into sliding or rolling contact with it.

Cam (n.) A curved wedge, movable about an axis, used for forcing or clamping two pieces together.

Cam (n.) A projecting part of a wheel or other moving piece so shaped as to give alternate or variable motion to another piece against which it acts.

Cam (n.) A ridge or mound of earth.

Cam (a.) Crooked.

Camaieu (n.) A cameo.

Camaieu (n.) Painting in shades of one color; monochrome.

Camail (n.) A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or other headpiece.

Camail (n.) A hood of other material than mail;

Camail (n.) a hood worn in church services, -- the amice, or the like.

Camarasaurus (n.) A genus of gigantic American Jurassic dinosaurs, having large cavities in the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae.

Camarilla (n.) The private audience chamber of a king.

Camarilla (n.) A company of secret and irresponsible advisers, as of a king; a cabal or clique.

Camass (n.) A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by the Indians.

Camber (n.) An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has a high camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).

Camber (n.) An upward concavity in the under side of a beam, girder, or lintel; also, a slight upward concavity in a straight arch. See Hogback.

Cambered (imp. & p. p.) of Camber

Cambering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Camber

Camber (v. t.) To cut bend to an upward curve; to construct, as a deck, with an upward curve.

Camber (v. i.) To curve upward.

Camberkeeled (a.) Having the keel arched upwards, but not actually hogged; -- said of a ship.

Cambial (a.) Belonging to exchanges in commerce; of exchange.

Cambist (n.) A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills of exchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange.

Cambistry (n.) The science of exchange, weight, measures, etc.

Cambium (n.) A series of formative cells lying outside of the wood proper and inside of the inner bark. The growth of new wood takes place in the cambium, which is very soft.

Cambium (n.) A fancied nutritive juice, formerly supposed to originate in the blood, to repair losses of the system, and to promote its increase.

Camblet (n.) See Camlet.

Camboge (n.) See Gamboge.

Camboose (n.) See Caboose.

Cambrasine (n.) A kind of linen cloth made in Egypt, and so named from its resemblance to cambric.

Cambrel (n.) See Gambrel, n., 2.

Cambria (n.) The ancient Latin name of Wales. It is used by modern poets.

Cambrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Cambria or Wales.

Cambrian (a.) Of or pertaining to the lowest subdivision of the rocks of the Silurian or Molluscan age; -- sometimes described as inferior to the Silurian. It is named from its development in Cambria or Wales. See the Diagram under Geology.

Cambrian (n.) A native of Cambria or Wales.

Cambrian (n.) The Cambrian formation.

Cambric (n.) A fine, thin, and white fabric made of flax or linen.

Cambric (n.) A fabric made, in imitation of linen cambric, of fine, hardspun cotton, often with figures of various colors; -- also called cotton cambric, and cambric muslin.

Cambro-Briton (n.) A Welshman.

Came () imp. of Come.

Came (n.) A slender rod of cast lead, with or without grooves, used, in casements and stained-glass windows, to hold together the panes or pieces of glass.

Camel (n.) A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdens and for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a long time without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at the extremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on the callous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius) has one bunch on the back, while the Bactrian camel (C. Bactrianus) has two. The llama, alpaca, and vicua, of South America, belong to a related genus (Auchenia).

Camel (n.) A water-tight structure (as a large box or boxes) used to assist a vessel in passing over a shoal or bar or in navigating shallow water. By admitting water, the camel or camels may be sunk and attached beneath or at the sides of a vessel, and when the water is pumped out the vessel is lifted.

Camel-backed (a.) Having a back like a camel; humpbacked.

Cameleon (n.) See Chaceleon.

Camellia (n.) An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves and showy flowers. Camellia Japonica is much cultivated for ornament, and C. Sassanqua and C. oleifera are grown in China for the oil which is pressed from their seeds. The tea plant is now referred to this genus under the name of Camellia Thea.

Camelopard (n.) An African ruminant; the giraffe. See Giraffe.

Camelot (n.) See Camelet.

Camelshair (a.) Of camel's hair.

Cameos (pl. ) of Cameo

Cameo (n.) A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel for personal adornment, or like.

Cameras (pl. ) of Camera

Camerae (pl. ) of Camera

Camera (n.) A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The camera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Camera obscura.

Camerade (n.) See Comrade.

Cameralistic (a.) Of or pertaining to finance and public revenue.

Cameralistics (n.) The science of finance or public revenue.

Camera lucida () An instrument which by means of a prism of a peculiar form, or an arrangement of mirrors, causes an apparent image of an external object or objects to appear as if projected upon a plane surface, as of paper or canvas, so that the outlines may conveniently traced. It is generally used with the microscope.

Camera obscura () An apparatus in which the images of external objects, formed by a convex lens or a concave mirror, are thrown on a paper or other white surface placed in the focus of the lens or mirror within a darkened chamber, or box, so that the outlines may be traced.

Camera obscura () An apparatus in which the image of an external object or objects is, by means of lenses, thrown upon a sensitized plate or surface placed at the back of an extensible darkened box or chamber variously modified; -- commonly called simply the camera.

Camerated (imp. & p. p.) of Camerate

Camerzting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Camerate

Camerate (v. i.) To build in the form of a vault; to arch over.

Camerate (v. i.) To divide into chambers.

Cameration (n.) A vaulting or arching over.

Camerlingo (n.) The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over the pope's household. He has at times possessed great power.

Cameronian (n.) A follower of the Rev. Richard Cameron, a Scotch Covenanter of the time of Charles II.

Camis (n.) A light, loose dress or robe.

Camisade (n.) Alt. of Camisado

Camisado (n.) A shirt worn by soldiers over their uniform, in order to be able to recognize one another in a night attack.

Camisado (n.) An attack by surprise by soldiers wearing the camisado.

Camisard (n.) One of the French Protestant insurgents who rebelled against Louis XIV, after the revocation of the edict of Nates; -- so called from the peasant's smock (camise) which they wore.

Camisated (a.) Dressed with a shirt over the other garments.

Camisole (n.) A short dressing jacket for women.

Camisole (n.) A kind of straitjacket.

Camlet (n.) A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton.

Camleted (a.) Wavy or undulating like camlet; veined.

Cammas (n.) See Camass.

Cammock (n.) A plant having long hard, crooked roots, the Ononis spinosa; -- called also rest-harrow. The Scandix Pecten-Veneris is also called cammock.

Camomile (n.) Alt. of Chamomile

Chamomile (n.) A genus of herbs (Anthemis) of the Composite family. The common camomile, A. nobilis, is used as a popular remedy. Its flowers have a strong and fragrant and a bitter, aromatic taste. They are tonic, febrifugal, and in large doses emetic, and the volatile oil is carminative.

Camonflet (n.) A small mine, sometimes formed in the wall or side of an enemy's gallery, to blow in the earth and cut off the retreat of the miners.

Camous (a.) Alt. of Camoys

Camoys (a.) Flat; depressed; crooked; -- said only of the nose.

Camoused (a.) Depressed; flattened.

Camously (adv.) Awry.

Camp (n.) The ground or spot on which tents, huts, etc., are erected for shelter, as for an army or for lumbermen, etc.

Camp (n.) A collection of tents, huts, etc., for shelter, commonly arranged in an orderly manner.

Camp (n.) A single hut or shelter; as, a hunter's camp.

Camp (n.) The company or body of persons encamped, as of soldiers, of surveyors, of lumbermen, etc.

Camp (n.) A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables are stored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie.

Camp (n.) An ancient game of football, played in some parts of England.

Camped (imp. & p. p.) of Camp

Camping (p. pr. & vb n.) of Camp

Camp (v. t.) To afford rest or lodging for, as an army or travelers.

Camp (v. i.) To pitch or prepare a camp; to encamp; to lodge in a camp; -- often with out.

Camp (n.) To play the game called camp.

Campagna (n.) An open level tract of country; especially Campagna di Roma. The extensive undulating plain which surrounds Rome.

Campagnol (n.) A mouse (Arvicala agrestis), called also meadow mouse, which often does great damage in fields and gardens, by feeding on roots and seeds.

Campaign (n.) An open field; a large, open plain without considerable hills. SeeChampaign.

Campaign (n.) A connected series of military operations forming a distinct stage in a war; the time during which an army keeps the field.

Campaign (n.) Political operations preceding an election; a canvass.

Campaign (n.) The period during which a blast furnace is continuously in operation.

Campaign (v. i.) To serve in a campaign.

Campaigner (n.) One who has served in an army in several campaigns; an old soldier; a veteran.

Campana (n.) A church bell.

Campana (n.) The pasque flower.

Campana (n.) Same as Gutta.

Campaned (a.) Furnished with, or bearing, campanes, or bells.

Campanero (n.) The bellbird of South America. See Bellbird.

Campanes (n. pl.) Bells.

Campania (n.) Open country.

Campaniform (a.) Bell-shaped.

Campanile (n.) A bell tower, esp. one built separate from a church.

Campaniliform (a.) Bell-shaped; campanulate; campaniform.

Campanologist (n.) One skilled in campanology; a bell ringer.

Campanology (n.) The art of ringing bells, or a treatise on the art.

Campanula (n.) A large genus of plants bearing bell-shaped flowers, often of great beauty; -- also called bellflower.

Campanulaceous (a.) Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants (Camponulaceae) of which Campanula is the type, and which includes the Canterbury bell, the harebell, and the Venus's looking-glass.

Campanularian (n.) A hydroid of the family ampanularidae, characterized by having the polyps or zooids inclosed in bell-shaped calicles or hydrothecae.

Campanulate (a.) Bell-shaped.

Campbellite (n.) A member of the denomination called Christians or Disciples of Christ. They themselves repudiate the term Campbellite as a nickname. See Christian, 3.

Campeachy Wood () Logwood.

Camper (n.) One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.

Campestral (a.) Alt. of Campestrian

Campestrian (a.) Relating to an open fields; drowing in a field; growing in a field, or open ground.

Camptight (n.) A duel; the decision of a case by a duel.

Camphene (n.) One of a series of substances C10H16, resembling camphor, regarded as modified terpenes.

Camphine (n.) Rectified oil of turpentine, used for burning in lamps, and as a common solvent in varnishes.

Camphire (n.) An old spelling of Camphor.

Camphogen (n.) See Cymene.

Camphol (n.) See Borneol.

Camphor (n.) A tough, white, aromatic resin, or gum, obtained from different species of the Laurus family, esp. from Cinnamomum camphara (the Laurus camphara of Linnaeus.). Camphor, C10H16O, is volatile and fragrant, and is used in medicine as a diaphoretic, a stimulant, or sedative.

Camphor (n.) A gum resembling ordinary camphor, obtained from a tree (Dryobalanops camphora) growing in Sumatra and Borneo; -- called also Malay camphor, camphor of Borneo, or borneol. See Borneol.

Camphor (v. t.) To impregnate or wash with camphor; to camphorate.

Camphoraceous (a.) Of the nature of camphor; containing camphor.

Camphorate (v. t.) To impregnate or treat with camphor.

Camphorate (n.) A salt of camphoric acid.

Camphorate () Alt. of Camporated

Camporated () Combined or impregnated with camphor.

Camphoric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, camphor.

Camphretic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from camphor.

Camping (n.) Lodging in a camp.

Camping (n.) A game of football.

Campion (n.) A plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus bacciferus), bearing berries regarded as poisonous.

Campus (n.) The principal grounds of a college or school, between the buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus.

Campylospermous (a.) Having seeds grooved lengthwise on the inner face, as in sweet cicely.

Campylotropous (a.) Having the ovules and seeds so curved, or bent down upon themselves, that the ends of the embryo are brought close together.

Camus (n.) See Camis.

Camwood (n.) See Barwood.

Can () an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in old poetry. [See Gan.]

Can (n.) A drinking cup; a vessel for holding liquids.

Can (n.) A vessel or case of tinned iron or of sheet metal, of various forms, but usually cylindrical; as, a can of tomatoes; an oil can; a milk can.

Canned (imp. & p. p.) of Can

Canning (p. pr. &vb. n.) of Can

Can (v. t.) To preserve by putting in sealed cans

Could (imp.) of Can

Can (v. t. & i.) To know; to understand.

Can (v. t. & i.) To be able to do; to have power or influence.

Can (v. t. & i.) To be able; -- followed by an infinitive without to; as, I can go, but do not wish to.

Canaanite (n.) A descendant of Canaan, the son of Ham, and grandson of Noah.

Canaanite (n.) A Native or inhabitant of the land of Canaan, esp. a member of any of the tribes who inhabited Canaan at the time of the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt.

Canaanite (n.) A zealot.

Canaanitish (a.) Of or pertaining to Canaan or the Canaanites.

Caada (n.) A small caon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley.

Canada (n.) A British province in North America, giving its name to various plants and animals.

Canadian (a.) Of or pertaining to Canada.

Canadian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Canada.

Canaille (n.) The lowest class of people; the rabble; the vulgar.

Canaille (n.) Shorts or inferior flour.

Canakin (n.) A little can or cup.

Canal (n.) An artificial channel filled with water and designed for navigation, or for irrigating land, etc.

Canal (n.) A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircular canals of the ear.

Canal coal () See Cannel coal.

Canaliculate (a.) Alt. of Canaliculated

Canaliculated (a.) Having a channel or groove, as in the leafstalks of most palms.

Canaliculi (pl. ) of Canaliculus

Canaliculus (n.) A minute canal.

Canalization (n.) Construction of, or furnishing with, a canal or canals.

Canard (n.) An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the newspapers to hoax the public.

Canarese (a.) Pertaining to Canara, a district of British India.

Canary (a.) Of or pertaining to the Canary Islands; as, canary wine; canary birds.

Canary (a.) Of a pale yellowish color; as, Canary stone.

Canaries (pl. ) of Canary

Canary (n.) Wine made in the Canary Islands; sack.

Canary (n.) A canary bird.

Canary (n.) A pale yellow color, like that of a canary bird.

Canary (n.) A quick and lively dance.

Canary (v. i.) To perform the canary dance; to move nimbly; to caper.

Canary bird () A small singing bird of the Finch family (Serinus Canarius), a native of the Canary Islands. It was brought to Europe in the 16th century, and made a household pet. It generally has a yellowish body with the wings and tail greenish, but in its wild state it is more frequently of gray or brown color. It is sometimes called canary finch.

Canaster (n.) A kind of tobacco for smoking, made of the dried leaves, coarsely broken; -- so called from the rush baskets in which it is packed in South America.

Can buoy () See under Buoy, n.

Cancan (n.) A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous or extravagant postures and gestures.

Canceled (imp. & p. p.) of Cancel

Cancelled () of Cancel

Canceling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cancel

Cancelling () of Cancel

Cancel (v. i.) To inclose or surround, as with a railing, or with latticework.

Cancel (v. i.) To shut out, as with a railing or with latticework; to exclude.

Cancel (v. i.) To cross and deface, as the lines of a writing, or as a word or figure; to mark out by a cross line; to blot out or obliterate.

Cancel (v. i.) To annul or destroy; to revoke or recall.

Cancel (v. i.) To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type.

Cancel (v. i.) An inclosure; a boundary; a limit.

Cancel (v. i.) The suppression or striking out of matter in type, or of a printed page or pages.

Cancel (v. i.) The part thus suppressed.

Cancelier (v. i.) To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk.

Cancelier (n.) Alt. of Canceleer

Canceleer (n.) The turn of a hawk upon the wing to recover herself, when she misses her aim in the stoop.

Cancellarean (a.) Cancellarean.

Cancellate (v. t.) Consisting of a network of veins, without intermediate parenchyma, as the leaves of certain plants; latticelike.

Cancellate (v. t.) Having the surface coveres with raised lines, crossing at right angles.

Cancellated (a.) Crossbarred; marked with cross lines.

Cancellated (a.) Open or spongy, as some porous bones.

Cancellation (n.) The act, process, or result of canceling; as, the cansellation of certain words in a contract, or of the contract itself.

Cancellation (n.) The operation of striking out common factors, in both the dividend and divisor.

Cancelli (v. t.) An interwoven or latticed wall or inclosure; latticework, rails, or crossbars, as around the bar of a court of justice, between the chancel and the nave of a church, or in a window.

Cancelli (v. t.) The interlacing osseous plates constituting the elastic porous tissue of certain parts of the bones, esp. in their articular extremities.

Cancellous (a.) Having a spongy or porous structure; made up of cancelli; cancellated; as, the cancellous texture of parts of many bones.

Cancer (n.) A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most common shore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonah crab, etc. See Crab.

Cancer (n.) The fourth of the twelve signs of the zodiac. The first point is the northern limit of the sun's course in summer; hence, the sign of the summer solstice. See Tropic.

Cancer (n.) A northern constellation between Gemini and Leo.

Cancer (n.) Formerly, any malignant growth, esp. one attended with great pain and ulceration, with cachexia and progressive emaciation. It was so called, perhaps, from the great veins which surround it, compared by the ancients to the claws of a crab. The term is now restricted to such a growth made up of aggregations of epithelial cells, either without support or embedded in the meshes of a trabecular framework.

Cancerated (imp. & p. p.) of Cancerate

Cancerate (v. i.) To grow into a canser; to become cancerous.

Canceration (n.) The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into a cancer.

Cancerite (n.) Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer.

Cancriform (a.) Having the form of, or resembling, a crab; crab-shaped.

Cancriform (a.) Like a cancer; cancerous.

Cancrine (a.) Having the qualities of a crab; crablike.

Cancrinite (n.) A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive, generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda, and carbon dioxide.

Cancroid (a.) Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of the families of crabs, including the genus Cancer.

Cancroid (a.) Like a cancer; as, a cancroid tumor.

Cand (n.) Fluor spar. See Kand.

Candelabra (pl. ) of Candelabrum

Candelabrums (pl. ) of Candelabrum

Candelabrum (n.) A lamp stand of any sort.

Candelabrum (n.) A highly ornamented stand of marble or other ponderous material, usually having three feet, -- frequently a votive offering to a temple.

Candelabrum (n.) A large candlestick, having several branches.

Candent (a.) Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat.

Canderos (n.) An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from which small ornaments and toys are sometimes made.

Candescence (n.) See Incandescence.

Candicant (a.) Growing white.

Candid (a.) White.

Candid (a.) Free from undue bias; disposed to think and judge according to truth and justice, or without partiality or prejudice; fair; just; impartial; as, a candid opinion.

Candid (a.) Open; frank; ingenuous; outspoken.

Candidacy (n.) The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate; candidateship.

Candidate (n.) One who offers himself, or is put forward by others, as a suitable person or an aspirant or contestant for an office, privilege, or honor; as, a candidate for the office of governor; a candidate for holy orders; a candidate for scholastic honors.

Candidateship (n.) Candidacy.

Candidating (n.) The taking of the position of a candidate; specifically, the preaching of a clergyman with a view to settlement.

Candidature (n.) Candidacy.

Candidly (adv.) In a candid manner.

Candidness (n.) The quality of being candid.

Candied (a.) Preserved in or with sugar; incrusted with a candylike substance; as, candied fruits.

Candied (a.) Converted wholly or partially into sugar or candy; as candied sirup.

Candied (a.) Conted or more or less with sugar; as, candidied raisins

Candied (a.) Figuratively; Honeyed; sweet; flattering.

Candied (a.) Covered or incrusted with that which resembles sugar or candy.

Candify (v. t. / v. i.) To make or become white, or candied.

Candiot (a.) Of or pertaining to Candia; Cretary.

Candite (n.) A variety of spinel, of a dark color, found at Candy, in Ceylon.

Candle (n.) A slender, cylindrical body of tallow, containing a wick composed of loosely twisted linen of cotton threads, and used to furnish light.

Candle (n.) That which gives light; a luminary.

Candleberry tree () A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common in North America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenish white wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- also called bayberry tree, bayberry, or candleberry.

Candlebomb (n.) A small glass bubble, filled with water, which, if placed in the flame of a candle, bursts by expansion of steam.

Candlebomb (n.) A pasteboard shell used in signaling. It is filled with a composition which makes a brilliant light when it explodes.

Candle coal () See Cannel coal.

Candlefish (n.) A marine fish (Thaleichthys Pacificus), allied to the smelt, found on the north Pacific coast; -- called also eulachon. It is so oily that, when dried, it may be used as a candle, by drawing a wick through it

Candlefish (n.) The beshow.

Candleholder (n.) One who, or that which, holds a candle; also, one who assists another, but is otherwise not of importance.

Candlelight (n.) The light of a candle.

Candlemas (n.) The second day of February, on which is celebrated the feast of the Purification of the Virgin Mary; -- so called because the candles for the altar or other sacred uses are blessed on that day.

Candlestick (n.) An instrument or utensil for supporting a candle.

Candlewaster (n.) One who consumes candles by being up late for study or dissipation.

Candock (n.) A plant or weed that grows in rivers; a species of Equisetum; also, the yellow frog lily (Nuphar luteum).

Candor (n.) Whiteness; brightness; (as applied to moral conditions) usullied purity; innocence.

Candor (n.) A disposition to treat subjects with fairness; freedom from prejudice or disguise; frankness; sincerity.

Candroy (n.) A machine for spreading out cotton cloths to prepare them for printing.

Candied (imp. & p. p.) of Candy

Candying (p. pr & vb. n.) of Candy

Candy (v. t.) To conserve or boil in sugar; as, to candy fruits; to candy ginger.

Candy (v. t.) To make sugar crystals of or in; to form into a mass resembling candy; as, to candy sirup.

Candy (v. t.) To incrust with sugar or with candy, or with that which resembles sugar or candy.

Candy (v. i.) To have sugar crystals form in or on; as, fruits preserved in sugar candy after a time.

Candy (v. i.) To be formed into candy; to solidify in a candylike form or mass.

Candy (v. t.) A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boiling sugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing, molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored or colored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc.

Candy (n.) A weight, at Madras 500 pounds, at Bombay 560 pounds.

Candytuft (n.) An annual plant of the genus Iberis, cultivated in gardens. The name was originally given to the I. umbellata, first, discovered in the island of Candia.

Cane (n.) A name given to several peculiar palms, species of Calamus and Daemanorops, having very long, smooth flexible stems, commonly called rattans.

Cane (n.) Any plant with long, hard, elastic stems, as reeds and bamboos of many kinds; also, the sugar cane.

Cane (n.) Stems of other plants are sometimes called canes; as, the canes of a raspberry.

Cane (n.) A walking stick; a staff; -- so called because originally made of one the species of cane.

Cane (n.) A lance or dart made of cane.

Cane (n.) A local European measure of length. See Canna.

Caned (imp. & p. p.) of Cane

Caning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cane

Cane (v. t.) To beat with a cane.

Cane (v. t.) To make or furnish with cane or rattan; as, to cane chairs.

Canebrake (n.) A thicket of canes.

Caned (a.) Filled with white flakes; mothery; -- said vinegar when containing mother.

Canella (n.) A genus of trees of the order Canellaceae, growing in the West Indies.

Canescent (a.) Growing white, or assuming a color approaching to white.

Can hook () A device consisting of a short rope with flat hooks at each end, for hoisting casks or barrels by the ends of the staves.

Cannicula (n.) The Dog Star; Sirius.

Canicular (a.) Pertaining to, or measured, by the rising of the Dog Star.

Canicule (n.) Canicula.

Caninal (a.) See Canine, a.

Canine (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Canidae, or dogs and wolves; having the nature or qualities of a dog; like that or those of a dog.

Canine (a.) Of or pertaining to the pointed tooth on each side the incisors.

Canine (n.) A canine tooth.

Canes (pl. ) of Canis

Canis (n.) A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidae, including the dogs and wolves.

Canister (n.) A small basket of rushes, reeds, or willow twigs, etc.

Canister (n.) A small box or case for holding tea, coffee, etc.

Canister (n.) A kind of case shot for cannon, in which a number of lead or iron balls in layers are inclosed in a case fitting the gun; -- called also canister shot.

Canker (n.) A corroding or sloughing ulcer; esp. a spreading gangrenous ulcer or collection of ulcers in or about the mouth; -- called also water canker, canker of the mouth, and noma.

Canker (n.) Anything which corrodes, corrupts, or destroy.

Canker (n.) A disease incident to trees, causing the bark to rot and fall off.

Canker (n.) An obstinate and often incurable disease of a horse's foot, characterized by separation of the horny portion and the development of fungoid growths; -- usually resulting from neglected thrush.

Canker (n.) A kind of wild, worthless rose; the dog-rose.

Cankered (imp. & p. p.) of Canker

Cankering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canker

Canker (v. t.) To affect as a canker; to eat away; to corrode; to consume.

Canker (v. t.) To infect or pollute; to corrupt.

Canker (v. i.) To waste away, grow rusty, or be oxidized, as a mineral.

Canker (v. i.) To be or become diseased, or as if diseased, with canker; to grow corrupt; to become venomous.

Canker-bit (a.) Eaten out by canker, or as by canker.

Canker bloom () The bloom or blossom of the wild rose or dog-rose.

Canker blossom () That which blasts a blossom as a canker does.

Cankered (a.) Affected with canker; as, a cankered mouth.

Cankered (a.) Affected mentally or morally as with canker; sore, envenomed; malignant; fretful; ill-natured.

Cankeredly (adv.) Fretfully; spitefully.

Canker fly () A fly that preys on fruit.

Cankerous (a.) Affecting like a canker.

Canker rash () A form of scarlet fever characterized by ulcerated or putrid sore throat.

Cankerworm (n.) The larva of two species of geometrid moths which are very injurious to fruit and shade trees by eating, and often entirely destroying, the foliage. Other similar larvae are also called cankerworms.

Cankery (a.) Like a canker; full of canker.

Cankery (a.) Surly; sore; malignant.

Canna (n.) A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet. See Cane, 4.

Canna (n.) A genus of tropical plants, with large leaves and often with showy flowers. The Indian shot (C. Indica) is found in gardens of the northern United States.

Cannabene (n.) A colorless oil obtained from hemp by distillation, and possessing its intoxicating properties.

Cannabin (n.) A poisonous resin extracted from hemp (Cannabis sativa, variety Indica). The narcotic effects of hasheesh are due to this resin.

Cannabine (a.) Pertaining to hemp; hempen.

Cannabis (n.) A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceae; hemp.

Cannel coal () A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard and solid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellow flame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles.

Cannery (n.) A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., is carried on.

Cannibal (n.) A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devours its own kind.

Cannibal (a.) Relating to cannibals or cannibalism.

Cannibalism (n.) The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence; Murderous cruelty; barbarity.

Cannibally (adv.) In the manner of cannibal.

Cannikin (n.) A small can or drinking vessel.

Cannily (adv.) In a canny manner.

Canniness (n.) Caution; crafty management.

Cannons (pl. ) of Cannon

Cannon (pl. ) of Cannon

Cannon (n.) A great gun; a piece of ordnance or artillery; a firearm for discharging heavy shot with great force.

Cannon (n.) A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, on which it may, however, revolve independently.

Cannon (n.) A kind of type. See Canon.

Cannon (n. & v.) See Carom.

Cannonade (n.) The act of discharging cannon and throwing ball, shell, etc., for the purpose of destroying an army, or battering a town, ship, or fort; -- usually, an attack of some continuance.

Cannonade (n.) Fig.; A loud noise like a cannonade; a booming.

Cannonade (imp. & p. p.) of Cannonade

Cannonading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cannonade

Cannonade (v. t.) To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot.

Cannonade (v. i.) To discharge cannon; as, the army cannonaded all day.

Cannon bone () See Canon Bone.

Cannoned (a.) Furnished with cannon.

Cannoneer (n.) Alt. of Cannonier

Cannonier (n.) A man who manages, or fires, cannon.

Cannonering (n.) The use of cannon.

Cannonry (n.) Cannon, collectively; artillery.

Cannot () Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two.

Cannula (n.) A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for various purposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids. It is usually associated with a trocar.

Cannular (a.) Having the form of a tube; tubular.

Cannulated (a.) Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length for wire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle.

Canny (a.) Alt. of Cannei

Cannei (a.) Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.

Cannei (a.) Skillful; knowing; capable.

Cannei (a.) Cautious; prudent; safe..

Cannei (a.) Having pleasing or useful qualities; gentle.

Cannei (a.) Reputed to have magical powers.

Canoes (pl. ) of Canoe

Canoe (n.) A boat used by rude nations, formed of trunk of a tree, excavated, by cutting of burning, into a suitable shape. It is propelled by a paddle or paddles, or sometimes by sail, and has no rudder.

Canoe (n.) A boat made of bark or skins, used by savages.

Canoe (n.) A light pleasure boat, especially designed for use by one who goes alone upon long excursions, including portage. It it propelled by a paddle, or by a small sail attached to a temporary mast.

Canoed (imp. & p. p.) of Canoe

Canoeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canoe

Canoe (v. i.) To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe.

Canoeing (n.) The act or art of using a canoe.

Canoeist (n.) A canoeman.

Canoemen (pl. ) of Canoeman

Canoeman (n.) One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe.

Canon (n.) A law or rule.

Canon (n.) A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a council and confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation, code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority.

Canon (n.) The collection of books received as genuine Holy Scriptures, called the sacred canon, or general rule of moral and religious duty, given by inspiration; the Bible; also, any one of the canonical Scriptures. See Canonical books, under Canonical, a.

Canon (n.) In monasteries, a book containing the rules of a religious order.

Canon (n.) A catalogue of saints acknowledged and canonized in the Roman Catholic Church.

Canon (n.) A member of a cathedral chapter; a person who possesses a prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church.

Canon (n.) A musical composition in which the voices begin one after another, at regular intervals, successively taking up the same subject. It either winds up with a coda (tailpiece), or, as each voice finishes, commences anew, thus forming a perpetual fugue or round. It is the strictest form of imitation. See Imitation.

Canon (n.) The largest size of type having a specific name; -- so called from having been used for printing the canons of the church.

Canon (n.) The part of a bell by which it is suspended; -- called also ear and shank.

Canon (n.) See Carom.

Caon (n.) A deep gorge, ravine, or gulch, between high and steep banks, worn by water courses.

Canon bit () That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.

Canon bone () The shank bone, or great bone above the fetlock, in the fore and hind legs of the horse and allied animals, corresponding to the middle metacarpal or metatarsal bone of most mammals. See Horse.

Canoness (n.) A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter.

Canonic (a.) Alt. of Cannonical

Cannonical (a.) Of or pertaining to a canon; established by, or according to a , canon or canons.

Canonically (adv.) In a canonical manner; according to the canons.

Canonicalness (n.) The quality of being canonical; canonicity.

Canonicals (n. pl.) The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman when officiating. Sometimes, any distinctive professional dress.

Canonicate (n.) The office of a canon; a canonry.

Canonicity (n.) The state or quality of being canonical; agreement with the canon.

Canonist (n.) A professor of canon law; one skilled in the knowledge and practice of ecclesiastical law.

Canonistic (a.) Of or pertaining to a canonist.

Canonization (n.) The final process or decree (following beatifacation) by which the name of a deceased person is placed in the catalogue (canon) of saints and commended to perpetual veneration and invocation.

Canonization (n.) The state of being canonized or sainted.

Canonized (imp. & p. p.) of Canonize

Canonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canonize

Canonize (v. t.) To declare (a deceased person) a saint; to put in the catalogue of saints; as, Thomas a Becket was canonized.

Canonize (v. t.) To glorify; to exalt to the highest honor.

Canonize (v. t.) To rate as inspired; to include in the canon.

Canonry (n. pl.) A benefice or prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church; a right to a place in chapter and to a portion of its revenues; the dignity or emoluments of a canon.

Canonship (a.) Of or pertaining to Canopus in Egypt; as, the Canopic vases, used in embalming.

Canopus (n.) A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellation Argo.

Canopies (pl. ) of Canopy

Canopy (n.) A covering fixed over a bed, dais, or the like, or carried on poles over an exalted personage or a sacred object, etc. chiefly as a mark of honor.

Canopy (n.) An ornamental projection, over a door, window, niche, etc.

Canopy (n.) Also, a rooflike covering, supported on pillars over an altar, a statue, a fountain, etc.

Canopes (imp. & p. p.) of Canopy

Canopying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canopy

Canopy (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a canopy.

Canorous (a.) Melodious; musical.

Canorousness (n.) The quality of being musical.

Canstick (n.) Candlestick.

Cant (n.) A corner; angle; niche.

Cant (n.) An outer or external angle.

Cant (n.) An inclination from a horizontal or vertical line; a slope or bevel; a titl.

Cant (n.) A sudden thrust, push, kick, or other impulse, producing a bias or change of direction; also, the bias or turn so give; as, to give a ball a cant.

Cant (n.) A segment forming a side piece in the head of a cask.

Cant (n.) A segment of he rim of a wooden cogwheel.

Cant (n.) A piece of wood laid upon the deck of a vessel to support the bulkheads.

Canted (imp. & p. p.) of Cant

Canting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cant

Cant (v. t.) To incline; to set at an angle; to tilt over; to tip upon the edge; as, to cant a cask; to cant a ship.

Cant (v. t.) To give a sudden turn or new direction to; as, to cant round a stick of timber; to cant a football.

Cant (v. t.) To cut off an angle from, as from a square piece of timber, or from the head of a bolt.

Cant (n.) An affected, singsong mode of speaking.

Cant (n.) The idioms and peculiarities of speech in any sect, class, or occupation.

Cant (n.) The use of religious phraseology without understanding or sincerity; empty, solemn speech, implying what is not felt; hypocrisy.

Cant (n.) Vulgar jargon; slang; the secret language spoker by gipsies, thieves, tramps, or beggars.

Cant (a.) Of the nature of cant; affected; vulgar.

Cant (v. i.) To speak in a whining voice, or an affected, singsong tone.

Cant (v. i.) To make whining pretensions to goodness; to talk with an affectation of religion, philanthropy, etc.; to practice hypocrisy; as, a canting fanatic.

Cant (v. i.) To use pretentious language, barbarous jargon, or technical terms; to talk with an affectation of learning.

Cant (n.) A call for bidders at a public sale; an auction.

Cant (v. t.) to sell by auction, or bid a price at a sale by auction.

Can't () A colloquial contraction for can not.

Cantab (n.) A Cantabrigian.

Cantabile (a.) In a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposed to bravura, recitativo, or parlando.

Cantabile (n.) A piece or passage, whether vocal or instrumental, peculiarly adapted to singing; -- sometimes called cantilena.

Cantabrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Cantabria on the Bay of Biscay in Spain.

Cantabrigian (n.) A native or resident of Cambridge; esp. a student or graduate of the university of Cambridge, England.

Cantalever (n.) A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.

Cantalever (n.) A projecting beam, truss, or bridge unsupported at the outer end; one which overhangs.

Cantaloupe (n.) A muskmelon of several varieties, having when mature, a yellowish skin, and flesh of a reddish orange color.

Cantankerous (a.) Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious.

Cantar (n.) Alt. of Cantarro

Cantarro (n.) A weight used in southern Europe and East for heavy articles. It varies in different localities; thus, at Rome it is nearly 75 pounds, in Sardinia nearly 94 pounds, in Cairo it is 95 pounds, in Syria about 503 pounds.

Cantarro (n.) A liquid measure in Spain, ranging from two and a half to four gallons.

Cantata (n.) A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses, solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner; originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of both recitative and melody.

Cantation (n.) A singing.

Cantatory (a.) Containing cant or affectation; whining; singing.

Cantatrice (n.) A female professional singer.

Canted (a.) Having angles; as, a six canted bolt head; a canted window.

Canted (a.) Inclined at an angle to something else; tipped; sloping.

Canteen (n.) A vessel used by soldiers for carrying water, liquor, or other drink.

Canteen (n.) The sutler's shop in a garrison; also, a chest containing culinary and other vessels for officers.

Cantel (n.) See Cantle.

Canter (n.) A moderate and easy gallop adapted to pleasure riding.

Canter (n.) A rapid or easy passing over.

Cantered (imp. & p. p.) of Canter

Cantering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canter

Canter (v. i.) To move in a canter.

Canter (v. t.) To cause, as a horse, to go at a canter; to ride (a horse) at a canter.

Canter (n.) One who cants or whines; a beggar.

Canter (n.) One who makes hypocritical pretensions to goodness; one who uses canting language.

Canterbury (n.) A city in England, giving its name various articles. It is the seat of the Archbishop of Canterbury (primate of all England), and contains the shrine of Thomas a Becket, to which pilgrimages were formerly made.

Canterbury (n.) A stand with divisions in it for holding music, loose papers, etc.

Cantharidal (a.) Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as, cantharidal plaster.

Cantharides (n. pl.) See Cantharis.

Cantharidin (n.) The active principle of the cantharis, or Spanish fly, a volatile, acrid, bitter solid, crystallizing in four-sided prisms.

Cantharides (pl. ) of Cantharis

Cantharis (n.) A beetle (Lytta, / Cantharis, vesicatoria), havin1g an elongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseous odor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary; -- also called Spanish fly. Many other species of Lytta, used for the same purpose, take the same name. See Blister beetle, under Blister. The plural form in usually applied to the dried insects used in medicine.

Cant hook () A wooden lever with a movable iron hook. hear the end; -- used for canting or turning over heavy logs, etc.

Canthoplasty (n.) The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has been destroyed by injury or disease.

Canthi (pl. ) of Canthus

Canthus (n.) The corner where the upper and under eyelids meet on each side of the eye.

Canticles (pl. ) of Canticle

Canticle (n.) A song; esp. a little song or hymn.

Canticle (n.) The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of the Old Testament.

Canticle (n.) A canto or division of a poem

Canticle (n.) A psalm, hymn, or passage from the Bible, arranged for chanting in church service.

Canticoy (n.) A social gathering; usually, one for dancing.

Cantile (v. i.) Same as Cantle, v. t.

Cantilena (n.) See Cantabile.

Cantilever (n.) Same as Cantalever.

Cantillate (v. i.) To chant; to recite with musical tones.

Cantillation (n.) A chanting; recitation or reading with musical modulations.

Cantine (n.) See Canteen.

Canting (a.) Speaking in a whining tone of voice; using technical or religious terms affectedly; affectedly pious; as, a canting rogue; a canting tone.

Canting (n.) The use of cant; hypocrisy.

Cantiniere (n.) A woman who carries a canteen for soldiers; a vivandiere.

Cantion (n.) A song or verses.

Cantle (n.) A corner or edge of anything; a piece; a fragment; a part.

Cantle (n.) The upwardly projecting rear part of saddle, opposite to the pommel.

Cantle (v. t.) To cut in pieces; to cut out from.

Cantlet (n.) A piece; a fragment; a corner.

Cantos (pl. ) of Canto

Canto (n.) One of the chief divisions of a long poem; a book.

Canto (n.) The highest vocal part; the air or melody in choral music; anciently the tenor, now the soprano.

Canton (n.) A song or canto

Canton (n.) A small portion; a division; a compartment.

Canton (n.) A small community or clan.

Canton (n.) A small territorial district; esp. one of the twenty-two independent states which form the Swiss federal republic; in France, a subdivision of an arrondissement. See Arrondissement.

Canton (n.) A division of a shield occupying one third part of the chief, usually on the dexter side, formed by a perpendicular line from the top of the shield, meeting a horizontal line from the side.

Cantoned (imp. & p. p.) of Canton

Cantoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canton

Canton (v. i.) To divide into small parts or districts; to mark off or separate, as a distinct portion or division.

Canton (v. i.) To allot separate quarters to, as to different parts or divisions of an army or body of troops.

Cantonal (a.) Of or pertaining to a canton or cantons; of the nature of a canton.

Canton crape () A soft, white or colored silk fabric, of a gauzy texture and wavy appearance, used for ladies' scarfs, shawls, bonnet trimmings, etc.; -- called also Oriental crape.

Cantoned (a.) Having a charge in each of the four corners; -- said of a cross on a shield, and also of the shield itself.

Cantoned (a.) Having the angles marked by, or decorated with, projecting moldings or small columns; as, a cantoned pier or pilaster.

Canton flannel () See Cotton flannel.

Cantonize (v. i.) To divide into cantons or small districts.

Cantonment (n.) A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to a body of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest for an army; quarters.

Cantoon (n.) A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satiny surface on the other.

Cantor (n.) A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor.

Cantoral (a.) Of or belonging to a cantor.

Cantoris (a.) Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir; a cantoris stall.

Cantrap (n.) Alt. of Cantrip

Cantrip (n.) A charm; an incantation; a shell; a trick; adroit mischief.

Cantred (n.) Alt. of Cantref

Cantref (n.) A district comprising a hundred villages, as in Wales.

Canty (a.) Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry.

Canuck (n.) A Canadian.

Canuck (n.) A small or medium-sized hardy horse, common in Canada.

Canula (a.) Alt. of Canulated

Canular (a.) Alt. of Canulated

Canulated (a.) See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.

Canvas (n.) A strong cloth made of hemp, flax, or cotton; -- used for tents, sails, etc.

Canvas (n.) A coarse cloth so woven as to form regular meshes for working with the needle, as in tapestry, or worsted work.

Canvas (n.) A piece of strong cloth of which the surface has been prepared to receive painting, commonly painting in oil.

Canvas (n.) Something for which canvas is used: (a) A sail, or a collection of sails. (b) A tent, or a collection of tents. (c) A painting, or a picture on canvas.

Canvas (n.) A rough draft or model of a song, air, or other literary or musical composition; esp. one to show a poet the measure of the verses he is to make.

Canvas (a.) Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth; as, a canvas tent.

Canvasback (n.) A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for the delicacy of its flesh. It visits the United States in autumn; particularly Chesapeake Bay and adjoining waters; -- so named from the markings of the plumage on its back.

Canvassed (imp. & p. p.) of Canvass

Canvassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canvass

Canvass (n.) To sift; to strain; to examine thoroughly; to scrutinize; as, to canvass the votes cast at an election; to canvass a district with reference to its probable vote.

Canvass (n.) To examine by discussion; to debate.

Canvass (n.) To go trough, with personal solicitation or public addresses; as, to canvass a district for votes; to canvass a city for subscriptions.

Canvass (v. i.) To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing a district; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvass for a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonly followed by for.

Canvass (n.) Close inspection; careful review for verification; as, a canvass of votes.

Canvass (n.) Examination in the way of discussion or debate.

Canvass (n.) Search; exploration; solicitation; systematic effort to obtain votes, subscribers, etc.

Canvasser (n.) One who canvasses.

Cany (a.) Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes.

Canyon (n.) The English form of the Spanish word Caon.

Canzone (n.) A song or air for one or more voices, of Provencal origin, resembling, though not strictly, the madrigal.

Canzone (n.) An instrumental piece in the madrigal style.

Canzonet (n.) A short song, in one or more parts.

Caoutchin (n.) An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained by the destructive distillation of caoutchouc.

Caoutchouc (n.) A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milky sap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. the euphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, and Africa. Being impermeable to liquids and gases, and not readly affected by exposure to air, acids, and alkalies, it is used, especially when vulcanized, for many purposes in the arts and in manufactures. Also called India rubber (because it was first brought from India, and was formerly used chiefly for erasing pencil marks) and gum elastic. See Vulcanization.

Caoutchoucin (n.) See Caoutchin.

Cap (n.) A covering for the head

Cap (n.) One usually with a visor but without a brim, for men and boys

Cap (n.) One of lace, muslin, etc., for women, or infants

Cap (n.) One used as the mark or ensign of some rank, office, or dignity, as that of a cardinal.

Cap (n.) The top, or uppermost part; the chief.

Cap (n.) A respectful uncovering of the head.

Cap (n.) The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the bill to the nape of the neck.

Cap (n.) Anything resembling a cap in form, position, or use

Cap (n.) The uppermost of any assemblage of parts; as, the cap of column, door, etc.; a capital, coping, cornice, lintel, or plate.

Cap (n.) Something covering the top or end of a thing for protection or ornament.

Cap (n.) A collar of iron or wood used in joining spars, as the mast and the topmast, the bowsprit and the jib boom; also, a covering of tarred canvas at the end of a rope.

Cap (n.) A percussion cap. See under Percussion.

Cap (n.) The removable cover of a journal box.

Cap (n.) A portion of a spherical or other convex surface.

Cap (n.) A large size of writing paper; as, flat cap; foolscap; legal cap.

Capped (imp. & p. p.) of Cap

Capping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cap

Cap (v. t.) To cover with a cap, or as with a cap; to provide with a cap or cover; to cover the top or end of; to place a cap upon the proper part of; as, to cap a post; to cap a gun.

Cap (v. t.) To deprive of cap.

Cap (v. t.) To complete; to crown; to bring to the highest point or consummation; as, to cap the climax of absurdity.

Cap (v. t.) To salute by removing the cap.

Cap (v. t.) To match; to mate in contest; to furnish a complement to; as, to cap text; to cap proverbs.

Cap (v. i.) To uncover the head respectfully.

Capabilities (pl. ) of Capability

Capability (n.) The quality of being capable; capacity; capableness; esp. intellectual power or ability.

Capability (n.) Capacity of being used or improved.

Capable (a.) Possessing ability, qualification, or susceptibility; having capacity; of sufficient size or strength; as, a room capable of holding a large number; a castle capable of resisting a long assault.

Capable (a.) Possessing adequate power; qualified; able; fully competent; as, a capable instructor; a capable judge; a mind capable of nice investigations.

Capable (a.) Possessing legal power or capacity; as, a man capable of making a contract, or a will.

Capable (a.) Capacious; large; comprehensive.

Capableness (n.) The quality or state of being capable; capability; adequateness; competency.

Capacified (imp. & p. p.) of Capacify

Capacify (v. t.) To quality.

Capacious (a.) Having capacity; able to contain much; large; roomy; spacious; extended; broad; as, a capacious vessel, room, bay, or harbor.

Capacious (a.) Able or qualified to make large views of things, as in obtaining knowledge or forming designs; comprehensive; liberal.

Capaciosly (adv.) In a capacious manner or degree; comprehensively.

Capaciousness (n.) The quality of being capacious, as of a vessel, a reservoir a bay, the mind, etc.

Capacitated (imp. & p. p.) of Capacitate

Capacitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capacitate

Capacitate (v. t.) To render capable; to enable; to qualify.

Capacities (pl. ) of Capacity

Capacity (n.) The power of receiving or containing; extent of room or space; passive power; -- used in reference to physical things.

Capacity (n.) The power of receiving and holding ideas, knowledge, etc.; the comprehensiveness of the mind; the receptive faculty; capability of undestanding or feeling.

Capacity (n.) Ability; power pertaining to, or resulting from, the possession of strength, wealth, or talent; possibility of being or of doing.

Capacity (n.) Outward condition or circumstances; occupation; profession; character; position; as, to work in the capacity of a mason or a carpenter.

Capacity (n.) Legal or noral qualification, as of age, residence, character, etc., necessary for certain purposes, as for holding office, for marrying, for making contracts, will, etc.; legal power or right; competency.

Capape (adv.) See Cap-a-pie.

Capapie (adv.) From head to foot; at all points.

Caparison (n.) An ornamental covering or housing for a horse; the harness or trappings of a horse, taken collectively, esp. when decorative.

Caparison (n.) Gay or rich clothing.

Caparisoned (imp. & p. p.) of Caparison

Caparisoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caparison

Caparison (v. t.) To cover with housings, as a horse; to harness or fit out with decorative trappings, as a horse.

Caparison (v. t.) To aborn with rich dress; to dress.

Caparro (n.) A large South American monkey (Lagothrix Humboldtii), with prehensile tail.

Capcase (n.) A small traveling case or bandbox; formerly, a chest.

Cape (n.) A piece or point of land, extending beyond the adjacent coast into the sea or a lake; a promontory; a headland.

Cape (v. i.) To head or point; to keep a course; as, the ship capes southwest by south.

Cape (n.) A sleeveless garment or part of a garment, hanging from the neck over the back, arms, and shoulders, but not reaching below the hips. See Cloak.

Cape (v. i.) To gape.

Capel (n.) Alt. of Caple

Caple (n.) A horse; a nag.

Capel (n.) A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornblende) in the walls of tin and copper lodes.

Capelan (n.) See Capelin.

Capelin (n.) A small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the family Salmonidae, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland, Newfoundland, and Alaska. It is used as a bait for the cod.

Cappeline (n.) A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump of an amputated limb.

Capella (n.) A brilliant star in the constellation Auriga.

Capellane (n.) The curate of a chapel; a chaplain.

Capelle (n.) The private orchestra or band of a prince or of a church.

Capellet (n.) A swelling, like a wen, on the point of the elbow (or the heel of the hock) of a horse, caused probably by bruises in lying down.

Capellmeister (n.) The musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choir-master.

Capered (imp. & p. p.) of Caper

Capering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caper

Caper (v. i.) To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; to skip; to spring; to prance; to dance.

Caper (n.) A frolicsome leap or spring; a skip; a jump, as in mirth or dancing; a prank.

Caper (n.) A vessel formerly used by the Dutch, privateer.

Caper (n.) The pungent grayish green flower bud of the European and Oriental caper (Capparis spinosa), much used for pickles.

Caper (n.) A plant of the genus Capparis; -- called also caper bush, caper tree.

Caperberry (n.) The small olive-shaped berry of the European and Oriental caper, said to be used in pickles and as a condiment.

Caperberry (n.) The currantlike fruit of the African and Arabian caper (Capparis sodado).

Caper bush () Alt. of Caper tree

Caper tree () See Capper, a plant, 2.

Capercailzie (n.) Alt. of Capercally

Capercally (n.) A species of grouse (Tetrao uragallus) of large size and fine flavor, found in northern Europe and formerly in Scotland; -- called also cock of the woods.

Caperclaw (v. t.) To treat with cruel playfulness, as a cat treats a mouse; to abuse.

Caperer (n.) One who capers, leaps, and skips about, or dances.

Capful (n.) As much as will fill a cap.

Capias (n.) A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ of capias.

Capibara (n.) See Capybara.

Capillaceous (a.) Having long filaments; resembling a hair; slender. See Capillary.

Capillaire (n.) A sirup prepared from the maiden-hair, formerly supposed to have medicinal properties.

Capillaire (n.) Any simple sirup flavored with orange flowers.

Capillament (n.) A filament.

Capillament (n.) Any villous or hairy covering; a fine fiber or filament, as of the nerves.

Capillariness (n.) The quality of being capillary.

Capillarity (n.) The quality or condition of being capillary.

Capillarity (n.) The peculiar action by which the surface of a liquid, where it is in contact with a solid (as in a capillary tube), is elevated or depressed; capillary attraction.

Capillary (a.) Resembling a hair; fine; minute; very slender; having minute tubes or interspaces; having very small bore; as, the capillary vessels of animals and plants.

Capillary (a.) Pertaining to capillary tubes or vessels; as, capillary action.

Capillary (n.) A tube or vessel, extremely fine or minute.

Capillary (n.) A minute, thin-walled vessel; particularly one of the smallest blood vessels connecting arteries and veins, but used also for the smallest lymphatic and biliary vessels.

Capillation (n.) A capillary blood vessel.

Capillature (n.) A bush of hair; frizzing of the hair.

Capilliform (a.) In the shape or form of, a hair, or of hairs.

Capillose (a.) Having much hair; hairy.

Capistrate (a.) Hooded; cowled.

Capital (n.) Of or pertaining to the head.

Capital (n.) Having reference to, or involving, the forfeiture of the head or life; affecting life; punishable with death; as, capital trials; capital punishment.

Capital (n.) First in importance; chief; principal.

Capital (n.) Chief, in a political sense, as being the seat of the general government of a state or nation; as, Washington and Paris are capital cities.

Capital (n.) Of first rate quality; excellent; as, a capital speech or song.

Capital (n.) The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. It consists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), and necking. See these terms, and Column.

Capital (n.) The seat of government; the chief city or town in a country; a metropolis.

Capital (n.) Money, property, or stock employed in trade, manufactures, etc.; the sum invested or lent, as distinguished from the income or interest. See Capital stock, under Capital, a.

Capital (a.) That portion of the produce of industry, which may be directly employed either to support human beings or to assist in production.

Capital (a.) Anything which can be used to increase one's power or influence.

Capital (a.) An imaginary line dividing a bastion, ravelin, or other work, into two equal parts.

Capital (a.) A chapter, or section, of a book.

Capital (a.) See Capital letter, under Capital, a.

Capitalist (n.) One who has capital; one who has money for investment, or money invested; esp. a person of large property, which is employed in business.

Capitalization (n.) The act or process of capitalizing.

Capitalized (imp. & p. p.) of Capitalize

Capitalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capitalize

Capitalize (v. t.) To convert into capital, or to use as capital.

Capitalize (v. t.) To compute, appraise, or assess the capital value of (a patent right, an annuity, etc.)

Capitalize (v. t.) To print in capital letters, or with an initial capital.

Capitally (adv.) In a way involving the forfeiture of the head or life; as, to punish capitally.

Capitally (adv.) In a capital manner; excellently.

Capitalness (n.) The quality of being capital; preeminence.

Capitan Pasha () Alt. of Pacha

Pacha () The chief admiral of the Turkish fleet.

Capitate (a.) Headlike in form; also, having the distal end enlarged and rounded, as the stigmas of certain flowers.

Capitate (a.) Having the flowers gathered into a head.

Capitatim (a.) Of so much per head; as, a capitatim tax; a capitatim grant.

Capitation (n.) A numbering of heads or individuals.

Capitation (n.) A tax upon each head or person, without reference to property; a poll tax.

Capite (n.) See under Tenant.

Capitellate (a.) Having a very small knoblike termination, or collected into minute capitula.

Capitibranchiata (n. pl.) A division of annelids in which the gills arise from or near the head. See Tubicola.

Capitol () The temple of Jupiter, at Rome, on the Mona Capitolinus, where the Senate met.

Capitol () The edifice at Washington occupied by the Congress of the United States; also, the building in which the legislature of State holds its sessions; a statehouse.

Capitolian (a.) Alt. of Capitoline

Capitoline (a.) Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome.

Capitula (n. pl.) See Capitulum.

Capitular (n.) An act passed in a chapter.

Capitular (n.) A member of a chapter.

Capitular (n.) The head or prominent part.

Capitular (a.) Of or pertaining to a chapter; capitulary.

Capitular (a.) Growing in, or pertaining to, a capitulum.

Capitular (a.) Pertaining to a capitulum; as, the capitular process of a vertebra, the process which articulates with the capitulum of a rib.

Capitularly (adv.) In the manner or form of an ecclesiastical chapter.

Capitularies (pl. ) of Capitulary

Capitulary (n.) A capitular.

Capitulary (n.) The body of laws or statutes of a chapter, or of an ecclesiastical council.

Capitulary (n.) A collection of laws or statutes, civil and ecclesiastical, esp. of the Frankish kings, in chapters or sections.

Capitulary (a.) Relating to the chapter of a cathedral; capitular.

Capitulated (imp. & p. p.) of Capitulate

Capitulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capitulate

Capitulate (n.) To settle or draw up the heads or terms of an agreement, as in chapters or articles; to agree.

Capitulate (n.) To surrender on terms agreed upon (usually, drawn up under several heads); as, an army or a garrison capitulates.

Capitulate (v. t.) To surrender or transfer, as an army or a fortress, on certain conditions.

Capitulation (n.) A reducing to heads or articles; a formal agreement.

Capitulation (n.) The act of capitulating or surrendering to an emeny upon stipulated terms.

Capitulation (n.) The instrument containing the terms of an agreement or surrender.

Capitulator (n.) One who capitulates.

Capitule (n.) A summary.

Capitulum (n.) A thick head of flowers on a very short axis, as a clover top, or a dandelion; a composite flower. A capitulum may be either globular or flat.

Capitulum (n.) A knoblike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a bone or cartilage. [See Illust. of Artiodactyla.]

Capivi (n.) A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba.

Caple (n.) See Capel.

Caplin (n.) See Capelin.

Caplin (n.) Alt. of Capling

Capling (n.) The cap or coupling of a flail, through which the thongs pass which connect the handle and swingel.

Capnomancy (n.) Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke.

Capnomor (n.) A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained from beech tar.

Capoc (n.) A sort of cotton so short and fine that it can not be spun, used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc.

Capoches (pl. ) of Capoch

Capoch (n.) A hood; especially, the hood attached to the gown of a monk.

Capoched (imp. & p. p.) of Capoch

Capoch (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a hood; hence, to hoodwink or blind.

Capon (n.) A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded to improve his flesh for the table.

Capon (v. t.) To castrate; to make a capon of.

Caponet (n.) A young capon.

Caponiere (n.) A work made across or in the ditch, to protect it from the enemy, or to serve as a covered passageway.

Caponize (v. t.) To castrate, as a fowl.

Capot (n.) A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It counts for forty points.

Capotted (imp. & p. p.) of Capot

Capot (v. t.) To win all the tricks from, in playing at piquet.

Capote (n.) A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood.

Capouch (n. & v. t.) Same as Capoch.

Cappadine (n.) A floss or waste obtained from the cocoon after the silk has been reeled off, used for shag.

Cappaper () See cap, n., also Paper, n.

Cappeak (n.) The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor.

Cappella (n.) See A cappella.

Capper (n.) One whose business is to make or sell caps.

Capper (n.) A by-bidder; a decoy for gamblers [Slang, U. S.].

Capper (n.) An instrument for applying a percussion cap to a gun or cartridge.

Capping plane () A plane used for working the upper surface of staircase rails.

Capra (n.) A genus of ruminants, including the common goat.

Caprate (n.) A salt of capric acid.

Capreolate (a.) Having a tendril or tendrils.

Capreoline (a.) Of or pertaining to the roebuck.

Capric (a.) Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives.

Cariccio (n.) A piece in a free form, with frequent digressions from the theme; a fantasia; -- often called caprice.

Cariccio (n.) A caprice; a freak; a fancy.

Capricioso (a.) In a free, fantastic style.

Caprice (v. i.) An abrupt change in feeling, opinion, or action, proceeding from some whim or fancy; a freak; a notion.

Caprice (v. i.) See Capriccio.

Capricious (a.) Governed or characterized by caprice; apt to change suddenly; freakish; whimsical; changeable.

Capricorn (n.) The tenth sign of zodiac, into which the sun enters at the winter solstice, about December 21. See Tropic.

Capricorn (n.) A southern constellation, represented on ancient monuments by the figure of a goat, or a figure with its fore part like a fish.

Caprid (a.) Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat, or genus Capra, is the type.

Caprification (n.) The practice of hanging, upon the cultivated fig tree, branches of the wild fig infested with minute hymenopterous insects.

Caprifole (n.) The woodbine or honeysuckle.

Caprifoliaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Honeysuckle family of plants (Caprifoliacae.

Capriform (a.) Having the form of a goat.

Caprigenous (a.) Of the goat kind.

Caprine (a.) Of or pertaining to a goat; as, caprine gambols.

Capriole (v. i.) A leap that a horse makes with all fours, upwards only, without advancing, but with a kick or jerk of the hind legs when at the height of the leap.

Capriole (v. i.) A leap or caper, as in dancing.

Capriole (v. i.) To perform a capriole.

Capriped (a.) Having feet like those of a goat.

Caproate (n.) A salt of caproic acid.

Caproic (a.) See under Capric.

Caprylate (n.) A salt of caprylic acid.

Caprylic (a.) See under Capric.

Capsaicin (n.) A colorless crystalline substance extracted from the Capsicum annuum, and giving off vapors of intense acridity.

Capsheaf (n.) The top sheaf of a stack of grain: (fig.) the crowning or finishing part of a thing.

Capsicin (n.) A red liquid or soft resin extracted from various species of capsicum.

Capsicine (n.) A volatile alkaloid extracted from Capsicum annuum or from capsicin.

Capsicum (n.) A genus of plants of many species, producing capsules or dry berries of various forms, which have an exceedingly pungent, biting taste, and when ground form the red or Cayenne pepper of commerce.

Capsized (imp. & p. p.) of Capsize

Capsizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capsize

Capsize (v. t. & i.) To upset or overturn, as a vessel or other body.

Capsize (n.) An upset or overturn.

Capsquare (n.) A metal covering plate which passes over the trunnions of a cannon, and holds it in place.

Capstan (n.) A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an upright spindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars or levers. It is much used, especially on shipboard, for moving or raising heavy weights or exerting great power by traction upon a rope or cable, passing around the drum. It is operated either by steam power or by a number of men walking around the capstan, each pushing on the end of a lever fixed in its socket.

Capstone (n.) A fossil echinus of the genus Cannulus; -- so called from its supposed resemblance to a cap.

Capsular (a.) Alt. of Capsulary

Capsulary (a.) Of or pertaining to a capsule; having the nature of a capsule; hollow and fibrous.

Capsulate (a.) Alt. of Capsulated

Capsulated (a.) Inclosed in a capsule, or as in a chest or box.

Capsule (n.) a dry fruit or pod which is made up of several parts or carpels, and opens to discharge the seeds, as, the capsule of the poppy, the flax, the lily, etc.

Capsule (n.) A small saucer of clay for roasting or melting samples of ores, etc.; a scorifier.

Capsule (n.) a small, shallow, evaporating dish, usually of porcelain.

Capsule (n.) A small cylindrical or spherical gelatinous envelope in which nauseous or acrid doses are inclosed to be swallowed.

Capsule (n.) A membranous sac containing fluid, or investing an organ or joint; as, the capsule of the lens of the eye. Also, a capsulelike organ.

Capsule (n.) A metallic seal or cover for closing a bottle.

Capsule (n.) A small cup or shell, as of metal, for a percussion cap, cartridge, etc.

Captain (n.) A head, or chief officer

Captain (n.) The military officer who commands a company, troop, or battery, or who has the rank entitling him to do so though he may be employed on other service.

Captain (n.) An officer in the United States navy, next above a commander and below a commodore, and ranking with a colonel in the army.

Captain (n.) By courtesy, an officer actually commanding a vessel, although not having the rank of captain.

Captain (n.) The master or commanding officer of a merchant vessel.

Captain (n.) One in charge of a portion of a ship's company; as, a captain of a top, captain of a gun, etc.

Captain (n.) The foreman of a body of workmen.

Captain (n.) A person having authority over others acting in concert; as, the captain of a boat's crew; the captain of a football team.

Captain (n.) A military leader; a warrior.

Captain (v. t.) To act as captain of; to lead.

Captain (a.) Chief; superior.

Captaincy (n.) The rank, post, or commission of a captain.

Captainry (n.) Power, or command, over a certain district; chieftainship.

Captainship (n.) The condition, rank, post, or authority of a captain or chief commander.

Captainship (n.) Military skill; as, to show good captainship.

Captation (n.) A courting of favor or applause, by flattery or address; a captivating quality; an attraction.

Caption (n.) A caviling; a sophism.

Caption (n.) The act of taking or arresting a person by judicial process.

Caption (n.) That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment, etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it was taken, found, or executed.

Caption (n.) The heading of a chapter, section, or page.

Captious (a.) Apt to catch at faults; disposed to find fault or to cavil; eager to object; difficult to please.

Captious (a.) Fitted to harass, perplex, or insnare; insidious; troublesome.

Captiously (adv.) In a captious manner.

Captiousness (n.) Captious disposition or manner.

Captivated (imp. & p. p.) of Captivate

Captivating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Captivate

Captivate (v. t.) To take prisoner; to capture; to subdue.

Captivate (v. t.) To acquire ascendancy over by reason of some art or attraction; to fascinate; to charm; as, Cleopatra captivated Antony; the orator captivated all hearts.

Captivate (p. a.) Taken prisoner; made captive; insnared; charmed.

Captivating (a.) Having power to captivate or charm; fascinating; as, captivating smiles.

Captivation (n.) The act of captivating.

Captive (n.) A prisoner taken by force or stratagem, esp., by an enemy, in war; one kept in bondage or in the power of another.

Captive (n.) One charmed or subdued by beaty, excellence, or affection; one who is captivated.

Captive (a.) Made prisoner, especially in war; held in bondage or in confinement.

Captive (a.) Subdued by love; charmed; captivated.

Captive (a.) Of or pertaining to bondage or confinement; serving to confine; as, captive chains; captive hours.

Captived (imp. & p. p.) of Captive

Captiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Captive

Captive (v. t.) To take prisoner; to capture.

Captivity (n.) The state of being a captive or a prisoner.

Captivity (n.) A state of being under control; subjection of the will or affections; bondage.

Captor (n.) One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize.

Capture (n.) The act of seizing by force, or getting possession of by superior power or by stratagem; as, the capture of an enemy, a vessel, or a criminal.

Capture (n.) The securing of an object of strife or desire, as by the power of some attraction.

Capture (n.) The thing taken by force, surprise, or stratagem; a prize; prey.

Captured (imp. & p. p.) of Capture

Capturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capture

Capture (v. t.) To seize or take possession of by force, surprise, or stratagem; to overcome and hold; to secure by effort.

Capuccio (n.) A capoch or hood.

Capuched (a.) Cover with, or as with, a hood.

Capuchin (n.) A Franciscan monk of the austere branch established in 1526 by Matteo di Baschi, distinguished by wearing the long pointed cowl or capoch of St. Francis.

Capuchin (n.) A garment for women, consisting of a cloak and hood, resembling, or supposed to resemble, that of capuchin monks.

Capuchin (n.) A long-tailed South American monkey (Cabus capucinus), having the forehead naked and wrinkled, with the hair on the crown reflexed and resembling a monk's cowl, the rest being of a grayish white; -- called also capucine monkey, weeper, sajou, sapajou, and sai.

Capuchin (n.) Other species of Cabus, as C. fatuellus (the brown or horned capucine.), C. albifrons (the cararara), and C. apella.

Capuchin (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon having a hoodlike tuft of feathers on the head and sides of the neck.

Capucine (n.) See Capuchin, 3.

Capulet (n.) Same as Capellet.

Capulin (n.) The Mexican cherry (Prunus Capollin).

Capita (pl. ) of Caput

Caput (n.) The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum.

Caput (n.) The top or superior part of a thing.

Caput (n.) The council or ruling body of the University of Cambridge prior to the constitution of 1856.

Capybara (n.) A large South American rodent (Hydrochaerus capybara) Living on the margins of lakes and rivers. It is the largest extant rodent, being about three feet long, and half that in height. It somewhat resembles the Guinea pig, to which it is related; -- called also cabiai and water hog.

Car (n.) A small vehicle moved on wheels; usually, one having but two wheels and drawn by one horse; a cart.

Car (n.) A vehicle adapted to the rails of a railroad.

Car (n.) A chariot of war or of triumph; a vehicle of splendor, dignity, or solemnity.

Car (n.) The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or the Dipper.

Car (n.) The cage of a lift or elevator.

Car (n.) The basket, box, or cage suspended from a balloon to contain passengers, ballast, etc.

Car (n.) A floating perforated box for living fish.

Carabid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Carbus or family Carabidae.

Carabid (n.) One of the Carabidae, a family of active insectivorous beetles.

Carabine (n.) A carbine.

Carabineer (n.) A carbineer.

Caraboid (a.) Like, or pertaining to the genus Carabus.

Carabus (n.) A genus of ground beetles, including numerous species. They devour many injurious insects.

Carac (n.) See Carack.

Caracal (n.) A lynx (Felis, or Lynx, caracal.) It is a native of Africa and Asia. Its ears are black externally, and tipped with long black hairs.

Caracara (n.) A south American bird of several species and genera, resembling both the eagles and the vultures. The caracaras act as scavengers, and are also called carrion buzzards.

Carack (n.) A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon.

Caracole (n.) A half turn which a horseman makes, either to the right or the left.

Caracole (n.) A staircase in a spiral form.

Caracoled (imp. & p. p.) of Caracole

Caracole (v. i.) To move in a caracole, or in caracoles; to wheel.

Caracoly (n.) An alloy of gold, silver, and copper, of which an inferior quality of jewelry is made.

Caracore (n.) Alt. of Caracora

Caracora (n.) A light vessel or proa used by the people of Borneo, etc., and by the Dutch in the East Indies.

Carafe (n.) A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called also croft.

Carageen (n.) Alt. of Caragheen

Caragheen (n.) See Carrageen.

Carambola (n.) An East Indian tree (Averrhoa Carambola), and its acid, juicy fruit; called also Coromandel gooseberry.

Caramel (n.) Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained by heating sugar. It is soluble in water, and is used for coloring spirits, gravies, etc.

Caramel (n.) A kind of confectionery, usually a small cube or square of tenacious paste, or candy, of varying composition and flavor.

Carangoid (a.) Belonging to the Carangidae, a family of fishes allied to the mackerels, and including the caranx, American bluefish, and the pilot fish.

Caranx (n.) A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including the yellow or golden mackerel.

Carapace (n.) The thick shell or shield which covers the back of the tortoise, or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.

Carapato (n.) A south American tick of the genus Amblyomma. There are several species, very troublesome to man and beast.

Carapax (n.) See Carapace.

Carat (n.) The weight by which precious stones and pearls are weighed.

Carat (n.) A twenty-fourth part; -- a term used in estimating the proportionate fineness of gold.

Caravan (n.) A company of travelers, pilgrims, or merchants, organized and equipped for a long journey, or marching or traveling together, esp. through deserts and countries infested by robbers or hostile tribes, as in Asia or Africa.

Caravan (n.) A large, covered wagon, or a train of such wagons, for conveying wild beasts, etc., for exhibition; an itinerant show, as of wild beasts.

Caravan (n.) A covered vehicle for carrying passengers or for moving furniture, etc.; -- sometimes shorted into van.

Caravaneer (n.) The leader or driver of the camels in caravan.

Caravansaries (pl. ) of Caravansary

Caravansary (n.) A kind of inn, in the East, where caravans rest at night, being a large, rude, unfurnished building, surrounding a court.

Caravel (n.) A name given to several kinds of vessels.

Caravel (n.) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broad bows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails. Columbus commanded three caravels on his great voyage.

Caravel (n.) A Portuguese vessel of 100 or 150 tons burden.

Caravel (n.) A small fishing boat used on the French coast.

Caravel (n.) A Turkish man-of-war.

Caraway (n.) A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui). The seeds have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste. They are used in cookery and confectionery, and also in medicine as a carminative.

Caraway (n.) A cake or sweetmeat containing caraway seeds.

Carbamic (a.) Pertaining to an acid so called.

Carbamide (n.) The technical name for urea.

Carbamine (n.) An isocyanide of a hydrocarbon radical. The carbamines are liquids, usually colorless, and of unendurable odor.

Carbanil (n.) A mobile liquid, CO.N.C6H5, of pungent odor. It is the phenyl salt of isocyanic acid.

Carbazol (n.) A white crystallized substance, C12H8NH, derived from aniline and other amines.

Carbazotate (n.) A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate.

Carbazotic (a.) Containing, or derived from, carbon and nitrogen.

Carbide (n.) A binary compound of carbon with some other element or radical, in which the carbon plays the part of a negative; -- formerly termed carburet.

Carbimide (n.) The technical name for isocyanic acid. See under Isocyanic.

Carbine (n.) A short, light musket or rifle, esp. one used by mounted soldiers or cavalry.

Carbineer (n.) A soldier armed with a carbine.

Carbinol (n.) Methyl alcohol, CH3OH; -- also, by extension, any one in the homologous series of paraffine alcohols of which methyl alcohol is the type.

Carbohydrate (n.) One of a group of compounds including the sugars, starches, and gums, which contain six (or some multiple of six) carbon atoms, united with a variable number of hydrogen and oxygen atoms, but with the two latter always in proportion as to form water; as dextrose, C6H12O6.

Carbohydride (n.) A hydrocarbon.

Carbolic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from coal tar and other sources; as, carbolic acid (called also phenic acid, and phenol). See Phenol.

Carbolize (v. t.) To apply carbolic acid to; to wash or treat with carbolic acid.

Carbon (n.) An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which is present in all organic compounds. Atomic weight 11.97. Symbol C. it is combustible, and forms the base of lampblack and charcoal, and enters largely into mineral coals. In its pure crystallized state it constitutes the diamond, the hardest of known substances, occuring in monometric crystals like the octahedron, etc. Another modification is graphite, or blacklead, and in this it is soft, and occurs in hexagonal prisms or tables. When united with oxygen it forms carbon dioxide, commonly called carbonic acid, or carbonic oxide, according to the proportions of the oxygen; when united with hydrogen, it forms various compounds called hydrocarbons. Compare Diamond, and Graphite.

Carbonaceous (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or composed of, carbon.

Carbonade (n.) Alt. of Carbonado

Carbonado (n.) Flesh, fowl, etc., cut across, seasoned, and broiled on coals; a chop.

Carbonadoed (imp. & p. p.) of Carbonade

Carbonadoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carbonade

Carbonado (v. t.) Alt. of Carbonade

Carbonade (v. t.) To cut (meat) across for frying or broiling; to cut or slice and broil.

Carbonade (v. t.) To cut or hack, as in fighting.

Carbonadoes (pl. ) of Carbonado

Carbonado (n.) A black variety of diamond, found in Brazil, and used for diamond drills. It occurs in irregular or rounded fragments, rarely distinctly crystallized, with a texture varying from compact to porous.

Carbonarism (n.) The principles, practices, or organization of the Carbonari.

Carbonari (pl. ) of Carbonaro

Carbonaro (n.) A member of a secret political association in Italy, organized in the early part of the nineteenth centry for the purpose of changing the government into a republic.

Carbonatation (n.) The saturation of defecated beet juice with carbonic acid gas.

Carbonate (n.) A salt or carbonic acid, as in limestone, some forms of lead ore, etc.

Carbonated (a.) Combined or impregnated with carbonic acid.

Carbone (v. t.) To broil. [Obs.] We had a calf's head carboned.

Carbonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, carbon; as, carbonic oxide.

Carbonide (n.) A carbide.

Carboniferous (a.) Producing or containing carbon or coal.

Carbonization (n.) The act or process of carbonizing.

Carbonized (imp. & p. p.) of Carbonize

Carbonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carbonize

Carbonize (v. t.) To convert (an animal or vegetable substance) into a residue of carbon by the action of fire or some corrosive agent; to char.

Carbonize (v. t.) To impregnate or combine with carbon, as in making steel by cementation.

Carbonometer (n.) An instrument for detecting and measuring the amount of carbon which is present, or more esp. the amount of carbon dioxide, by its action on limewater or by other means.

Carbonyl (n.) The radical (CO)'', occuring, always combined, in many compounds, as the aldehydes, the ketones, urea, carbonyl chloride, etc.

Carbostyril (n.) A white crystalline substance, C9H6N.OH, of acid properties derived from one of the amido cinnamic acids.

Carboxide (n.) A compound of carbon and oxygen, as carbonyl, with some element or radical; as, potassium carboxide.

Carboxyl (n.) The complex radical, CO.OH, regarded as the essential and characteristic constituent which all oxygen acids of carbon (as formic, acetic, benzoic acids, etc.) have in common; -- called also oxatyl.

Carboy (n.) A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass, inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonly for carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc.

Carbuncle (n.) A beautiful gem of a deep red color (with a mixture of scarlet) called by the Greeks anthrax; found in the East Indies. When held up to the sun, it loses its deep tinge, and becomes of the color of burning coal. The name belongs for the most part to ruby sapphire, though it has been also given to red spinel and garnet.

Carbuncle (n.) A very painful acute local inflammation of the subcutaneous tissue, esp. of the trunk or back of the neck, characterized by brawny hardness of the affected parts, sloughing of the skin and deeper tissues, and marked constitutional depression. It differs from a boil in size, tendency to spread, and the absence of a central core, and is frequently fatal. It is also called anthrax.

Carbuncle (n.) A charge or bearing supposed to represent the precious stone. It has eight scepters or staves radiating from a common center. Called also escarbuncle.

Carbuncled (a.) Set with carbuncles.

Carbuncled (a.) Affected with a carbuncle or carbuncles; marked with red sores; pimpled and blotched.

Carbuncular (a.) Belonging to a carbuncle; resembling a carbuncle; red; inflamed.

Carbunculation (n.) The blasting of the young buds of trees or plants, by excessive heat or cold.

Carburet (n.) A carbide. See Carbide

Carbureted (imp. & p. p.) of Carburet

Carburetted () of Carburet

Carbureting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carburet

Carburetting () of Carburet

Carburet (v. t.) To combine or to impregnate with carbon, as by passing through or over a liquid hydrocarbon; to carbonize or carburize.

Carburetant (n.) Any volatile liquid used in charging illuminating gases.

Carbureted (a.) Combined with carbon in the manner of a carburet or carbide.

Carbureted (a.) Saturated or impregnated with some volatile carbon compound; as, water gas is carbureted to increase its illuminating power.

Carburetor (n.) An apparatus in which coal gas, hydrogen, or air is passed through or over a volatile hydrocarbon, in order to confer or increase illuminating power.

Carburization (n.) The act, process, or result of carburizing.

Carburized (imp. & p. p.) of Carburize

Carburizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carburize

Carburize (v. t.) To combine with carbon or a carbon compound; -- said esp. of a process for conferring a higher degree of illuminating power on combustible gases by mingling them with a vapor of volatile hydrocarbons.

Carcajou (n.) The wolverene; -- also applied, but erroneously, to the Canada lynx, and sometimes to the American badger. See Wolverene.

Carcanet (n.) A jeweled chain, necklace, or collar.

Carcase (n.) See Carcass.

Carcasses (pl. ) of Carcass

Carcass (n.) A dead body, whether of man or beast; a corpse; now commonly the dead body of a beast.

Carcass (n.) The living body; -- now commonly used in contempt or ridicule.

Carcass (n.) The abandoned and decaying remains of some bulky and once comely thing, as a ship; the skeleton, or the uncovered or unfinished frame, of a thing.

Carcass (n.) A hollow case or shell, filled with combustibles, to be thrown from a mortar or howitzer, to set fire to buldings, ships, etc.

Carcavelhos (n.) A sweet wine. See Calcavella.

Carcelage (n.) Prison fees.

Carcel lamp () A French mechanical lamp, for lighthouses, in which a superabundance of oil is pumped to the wick tube by clockwork.

Carceral (a.) Belonging to a prison.

Carcinological (a.) Of or pertaining to carcinology.

Carcinology (n.) The department of zoology which treats of the Crustacea (lobsters, crabs, etc.); -- called also malacostracology and crustaceology.

Carcinoma (n.) A cancer. By some medical writers, the term is applied to an indolent tumor. See Cancer.

Carcinomatous (a.) Of or pertaining to carcinoma.

Carcinosys (n.) The affection of the system with cancer.

Card (n.) A piece of pasteboard, or thick paper, blank or prepared for various uses; as, a playing card; a visiting card; a card of invitation; pl. a game played with cards.

Card (n.) A published note, containing a brief statement, explanation, request, expression of thanks, or the like; as, to put a card in the newspapers. Also, a printed programme, and (fig.), an attraction or inducement; as, this will be a good card for the last day of the fair.

Card (n.) A paper on which the points of the compass are marked; the dial or face of the mariner's compass.

Card (n.) A perforated pasteboard or sheet-metal plate for warp threads, making part of the Jacquard apparatus of a loom. See Jacquard.

Card (n.) An indicator card. See under Indicator.

Carded (imp. & p. p.) of Card

Carding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Card

Card (v. i.) To play at cards; to game.

Card (n.) An instrument for disentangling and arranging the fibers of cotton, wool, flax, etc.; or for cleaning and smoothing the hair of animals; -- usually consisting of bent wire teeth set closely in rows in a thick piece of leather fastened to a back.

Card (n.) A roll or sliver of fiber (as of wool) delivered from a carding machine.

Card (v. t.) To comb with a card; to cleanse or disentangle by carding; as, to card wool; to card a horse.

Card (v. t.) To clean or clear, as if by using a card.

Card (v. t.) To mix or mingle, as with an inferior or weaker article.

Cardamine (n.) A genus of cruciferous plants, containing the lady's-smock, cuckooflower, bitter cress, meadow cress, etc.

Cardamom (n.) The aromatic fruit, or capsule with its seeds, of several plants of the Ginger family growing in the East Indies and elsewhere, and much used as a condiment, and in medicine.

Cardamom (n.) A plant which produces cardamoms, esp. Elettaria Cardamomum and several species of Amomum.

Cardboard (n.) A stiff compact pasteboard of various qualities, for making cards, etc., often having a polished surface.

Cardcase (n.) A case for visiting cards.

Cardecu (n.) A quarter of a crown.

Carder (n.) One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc.

Cardia (n.) The heart.

Cardia (n.) The anterior or cardiac orifice of the stomach, where the esophagus enters it.

Cardiac (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or hear the heart; as, the cardiac arteries; the cardiac, or left, end of the stomach.

Cardiac (a.) Exciting action in the heart, through the medium of the stomach; cordial; stimulant.

Cardiac (n.) A medicine which excites action in the stomach; a cardial.

Cardiacal (a.) Cardiac.

Cardiacle (n.) A pain about the heart.

Cardiagraph (n.) See Cardiograph.

Cardialgla (n.) Alt. of Cardialgy

Cardialgy (n.) A burning or gnawing pain, or feeling of distress, referred to the region of the heart, accompanied with cardiac palpitation; heartburn. It is usually a symptom of indigestion.

Cardigan jacket () A warm jacket of knit worsted with or without sleeves.

Cardinal (a.) Of fundamental importance; preeminent; superior; chief; principal.

Cardinal (a.) One of the ecclesiastical princes who constitute the pope's council, or the sacred college.

Cardinal (a.) A woman's short cloak with a hood.

Cardinal (a.) Mulled red wine.

Cardinalate (n.) The office, rank, or dignity of a cardinal.

Cardinalize (v. t.) To exalt to the office of a cardinal.

Cardinalship (n.) The condition, dignity, of office of a cardinal

Carding (a.) The act or process of preparing staple for spinning, etc., by carding it. See the Note under Card, v. t.

Carding (v. t.) A roll of wool or other fiber as it comes from the carding machine.

Cardiograph (n.) An instrument which, when placed in contact with the chest, will register graphically the comparative duration and intensity of the heart's movements.

Cardiographic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or produced by, a cardiograph.

Cardioid (n.) An algebraic curve, so called from its resemblance to a heart.

Cardioinhibitory (a.) Checking or arresting the heart's action.

Cardiolgy (n.) The science which treats of the heart and its functions.

Cardiometry (n.) Measurement of the heart, as by percussion or auscultation.

Cardiosphygmograph (n.) A combination of cardiograph and sphygmograph.

Carditis (n.) Inflammation of the fleshy or muscular substance of the heart. See Endocarditis and Pericarditis.

Cardines (pl. ) of Cardo

Cardo (n.) The basal joint of the maxilla in insects.

Cardo (n.) The hinge of a bivalve shell.

Cardol (n.) A yellow oily liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashew nut.

Cardoon (n.) A large herbaceous plant (Cynara Cardunculus) related to the artichoke; -- used in cookery and as a salad.

Care (n.) A burdensome sense of responsibility; trouble caused by onerous duties; anxiety; concern; solicitude.

Care (n.) Charge, oversight, or management, implying responsibility for safety and prosperity.

Care (n.) Attention or heed; caution; regard; heedfulness; watchfulness; as, take care; have a care.

Care (n.) The object of watchful attention or anxiety.

Cared (imp. & p. p.) of Care

Caring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Care

Care (n.) To be anxious or solicitous; to be concerned; to have regard or interest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure.

Careened (imp. & p. p.) of Careen

Careening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Careen

Careen (v. t.) To cause (a vessel) to lean over so that she floats on one side, leaving the other side out of water and accessible for repairs below the water line; to case to be off the keel.

Careen (v. i.) To incline to one side, or lie over, as a ship when sailing on a wind; to be off the keel.

Careenage (n.) Expense of careening ships.

Careenage (n.) A place for careening.

Career (n.) A race course: the ground run over.

Career (n.) A running; full speed; a rapid course.

Career (n.) General course of action or conduct in life, or in a particular part or calling in life, or in some special undertaking; usually applied to course or conduct which is of a public character; as, Washington's career as a soldier.

Career (n.) The flight of a hawk.

Careered (imp. & p. p.) of Career

Careering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Career

Career (v. i.) To move or run rapidly.

Careful (a.) Full of care; anxious; solicitous.

Careful (a.) Filling with care or solicitude; exposing to concern, anxiety, or trouble; painful.

Careful (a.) Taking care; giving good heed; watchful; cautious; provident; not indifferent, heedless, or reckless; -- often followed by of, for, or the infinitive; as, careful of money; careful to do right.

Carefully (adv.) In a careful manner.

Carefulness (n.) Quality or state of being careful.

Careless (a.) Free from care or anxiety. hence, cheerful; light-hearted.

Careless (a.) Having no care; not taking ordinary or proper care; negligent; unconcerned; heedless; inattentive; unmindful; regardless.

Careless (a.) Without thought or purpose; without due care; without attention to rule or system; unstudied; inconsiderate; spontaneous; rash; as, a careless throw; a careless expression.

Careless (a.) Not receiving care; uncared for.

Carelessly (adv.) In a careless manner.

Carelessness (n.) The quality or state of being careless; heedlessness; negligenece; inattention.

Carene (n.) A fast of forty days on bread and water.

Caress (n.) An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; an embracing, or touching, with tenderness.

Caressed (imp. & p. p.) of Caress

Caressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caress

Caress (n.) To treat with tokens of fondness, affection, or kindness; to touch or speak to in a loving or endearing manner; to fondle.

Caressingly (ad.) In caressing manner.

Caret (n.) A mark [^] used by writers and proof readers to indicate that something is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, which belongs in the place marked by the caret.

Caret (n.) The hawkbill turtle. See Hawkbill.

Caretuned (a.) Weary; mournful.

Careworn (a.) Worn or burdened with care; as, careworn look or face.

Carex (n.) A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceous plants of the order Cypreaceae; the sedges.

Carf () pret. of Carve.

Cargason (n.) A cargo.

Cargoes (pl. ) of Cargo

Cargo (n.) The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods, merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load; freight.

Cargoose (n.) A species of grebe (Podiceps crisratus); the crested grebe.

Cariama (n.) A large, long-legged South American bird (Dicholophus cristatus) which preys upon snakes, etc. See Seriema.

Caries (pl. ) of Carib

Carib (n.) A native of the Caribbee islands or the coasts of the Caribbean sea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of South America, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West India islands.

Caribbean (a.) Alt. of Caribbee

Caribbee (a.) Of or pertaining to the Caribs, to their islands (the eastern and southern West Indies), or to the sea (called the Caribbean sea) lying between those islands and Central America.

Caribbee (n.) A Carib.

Caribe (n.) A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo of many species, remarkable for its voracity. When numerous they attack man or beast, often with fatal results.

Caribou (n.) The American reindeer, especially the common or woodland species (Rangifer Caribou).

Caricature (v. t.) An exaggeration, or distortion by exaggeration, of parts or characteristics, as in a picture.

Caricature (v. t.) A picture or other figure or description in which the peculiarities of a person or thing are so exaggerated as to appear ridiculous; a burlesque; a parody.

Caricatured (imp. & p. p.) of Caricature

Caricaturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caricature

Caricature (v. t.) To make or draw a caricature of; to represent with ridiculous exaggeration; to burlesque.

Caricaturist (n.) One who caricatures.

Caricous (a.) Of the shape of a fig; as, a caricous tumor.

Caries (n.) Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates and is carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in which it dies in masses.

Carillon (n.) A chime of bells diatonically tuned, played by clockwork or by finger keys.

Carillon (n.) A tune adapted to be played by musical bells.

Carina (n.) A keel

Carina (n.) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals, commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification

Carina (n.) A longitudinal ridge or projection like the keel of a boat.

Carina (n.) The keel of the breastbone of birds.

Carinaria (n.) A genus of oceanic heteropod Mollusca, having a thin, glassy, bonnet-shaped shell, which covers only the nucleus and gills.

Carinatae (n. pl.) A grand division of birds, including all existing flying birds; -- So called from the carina or keel on the breastbone.

Carinate (a.) Alt. of Carinated

Carinated (a.) Shaped like the keel or prow of a ship; having a carina or keel; as, a carinate calyx or leaf; a carinate sternum (of a bird).

Cariole (n.) A small, light, open one-horse carriage

Cariole (n.) A covered cart

Cariole (n.) A kind of calash. See Carryall.

Cariopsis (n.) See Caryopsis.

Cariosity (n.) Caries.

Carious (a.) Affected with caries; decaying; as, a carious tooth.

Cark (n.) A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry.

Cark (v. i.) To be careful, anxious, solicitous, or troubles in mind; to worry or grieve.

Cark (v. t.) To vex; to worry; to make by anxious care or worry.

Carkanet (n.) A carcanet.

Carking (a.) Distressing; worrying; perplexing; corroding; as, carking cares.

Carl (n.) A rude, rustic man; a churl.

Carl (n.) Large stalks of hemp which bear the seed; -- called also carl hemp.

Carl (n.) A kind of food. See citation, below.

Carlin (n.) An old woman.

Carline (n.) Alt. of Caroline

Caroline (n.) A silver coin once current in some parts of Italy, worth about seven cents.

Carline (n.) Alt. of Carling

Carling (n.) A short timber running lengthwise of a ship, from one transverse desk beam to another; also, one of the cross timbers that strengthen a hath; -- usually in pl.

Carline thistle () A prickly plant of the genus Carlina (C. vulgaris), found in Europe and Asia.

Carlings (n. pl.) Same as Carl, 3.

Carlist (n.) A partisan of Charles X. of France, or of Don Carlos of Spain.

Carlock (n.) A sort of Russian isinglass, made from the air bladder of the sturgeon, and used in clarifying wine.

Carlot (n.) A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman.

Carlovingian (a.) Pertaining to, founded by, of descended from, Charlemagne; as, the Carlovingian race of kings.

Carmagnole (n.) A popular or Red Rebublican song and dance, of the time of the first French Revolution.

Carmagnole (n.) A bombastic report from the French armies.

Carman (n.) A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, a car or car.

Carmelite (a.) Alt. of Carmelin

Carmelin (a.) Of or pertaining to the order of Carmelites.

Carmelite (n.) A friar of a mendicant order (the Order of Our Lady of Mount Carmel) established on Mount Carmel, in Syria, in the twelfth century; a White Friar.

Carmelite (n.) A nun of the Order of Our lady of Mount Carmel.

Carminated (a.) Of, relating to, or mixed with, carmine; as, carminated lake.

Carminative (a.) Expelling wind from the body; warming; antispasmodic.

Carminative (n.) A substance, esp. an aromatic, which tends to expel wind from the alimentary canal, or to relieve colic, griping, or flatulence.

Carmine (n.) A rich red or crimson color with a shade of purple.

Carmine (n.) A beautiful pigment, or a lake, of this color, prepared from cochineal, and used in miniature painting.

Carmine (n.) The essential coloring principle of cochineal, extracted as a purple-red amorphous mass. It is a glucoside and possesses acid properties; -- hence called also carminic acid.

Carminic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or derived from, carmine.

Carmot (n.) The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to be composed.

Carnage (n.) Flesh of slain animals or men.

Carnage (n.) Great destruction of life, as in battle; bloodshed; slaughter; massacre; murder; havoc.

Carnal (a.) Of or pertaining to the body or its appetites; animal; fleshly; sensual; given to sensual indulgence; lustful; human or worldly as opposed to spiritual.

Carnal (a.) Flesh-devouring; cruel; ravenous; bloody.

Carnalism (n.) The state of being carnal; carnality; sensualism.

Carnalist (n.) A sensualist.

Carnality (n.) The state of being carnal; fleshly lust, or the indulgence of lust; grossness of mind.

Carnalized (imp. & p. p.) of Carnalize

Carnalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carnalize

Carnalize (v. t.) To make carnal; to debase to carnality.

Carnallite (n.) A hydrous chloride of potassium and magnesium, sometimes found associated with deposits of rock salt.

Carnally (adv.) According to the flesh, to the world, or to human nature; in a manner to gratify animal appetites and lusts; sensually.

Carnal-minded (a.) Worldly-minded.

Carnal-mindedness (n.) Grossness of mind.

Carnary (n.) A vault or crypt in connection with a church, used as a repository for human bones disintered from their original burial places; a charnel house.

Carnassial (a.) Adapted to eating flesh.

Carnassial (n.) A carnassial tooth; especially, the last premolar in many carnivores.

Carnate (a.) Invested with, or embodied in, flesh.

Carnation (n.) The natural color of flesh; rosy pink.

Carnation (n.) Those parts of a picture in which the human body or any part of it is represented in full color; the flesh tints.

Carnation (n.) A species of Dianthus (D. Caryophyllus) or pink, having very beautiful flowers of various colors, esp. white and usually a rich, spicy scent.

Carnationed (a.) Having a flesh color.

Carnauba (n.) The Brazilian wax palm. See Wax palm.

Carnelian (n.) A variety of chalcedony, of a clear, deep red, flesh red, or reddish white color. It is moderately hard, capable of a good polish, and often used for seals.

Carneous (a.) Consisting of, or like, flesh; carnous; fleshy.

Carney (n.) A disease of horses, in which the mouth is so furred that the afflicted animal can not eat.

Carnifex (n.) The public executioner at Rome, who executed persons of the lowest rank; hence, an executioner or hangman.

Carnification (n.) The act or process of turning to flesh, or to a substance resembling flesh.

Carnify (v. i.) To form flesh; to become like flesh.

Carnin (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract of meat, and related to xanthin.

Carnival (n.) A festival celebrated with merriment and revelry in Roman Gatholic countries during the week before Lent, esp. at Rome and Naples, during a few days (three to ten) before Lent, ending with Shrove Tuesday.

Carnival (n.) Any merrymaking, feasting, or masquerading, especially when overstepping the bounds of decorum; a time of riotous excess.

Carnivora (n. pl.) An order of Mammallia including the lion, tiger, wolf bear, seal, etc. They are adapted by their structure to feed upon flesh, though some of them, as the bears, also eat vegetable food. The teeth are large and sharp, suitable for cutting flesh, and the jaws powerful.

Carnivoracity (n.) Greediness of appetite for flesh.

Carnivore (n.) One of the Carnivora.

Carnivorous (a.) Eating or feeding on flesh. The term is applied: (a) to animals which naturally seek flesh for food, as the tiger, dog, etc.; (b) to plants which are supposed to absorb animal food; (c) to substances which destroy animal tissue, as caustics.

Carnose (a.) Alt. of Carnous

Carnous (a.) Of or pertaining to flesh; fleshy.

Carnous (a.) Of a fleshy consistence; -- applied to succulent leaves, stems, etc.

Carnosity (n.) A fleshy excrescence; esp. a small excrescence or fungous growth.

Carnosity (n.) Fleshy substance or quality; fleshy covering.

Carob (n.) An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua) found in the countries bordering the Mediterranean; the St. John's bread; -- called also carob tree.

Carob (n.) One of the long, sweet, succulent, pods of the carob tree, which are used as food for animals and sometimes eaten by man; -- called also St. John's bread, carob bean, and algaroba bean.

Caroche (n.) A kind of pleasure carriage; a coach.

Caroched (a.) Placed in a caroche.

Caroigne (n.) Dead body; carrion.

Carol (n.) A round dance.

Carol (n.) A song of joy, exultation, or mirth; a lay.

Carol (n.) A song of praise of devotion; as, a Christmas or Easter carol.

Carol (n.) Joyful music, as of a song.

Caroled (imp. & p. p.) of Carol

Carolled () of Carol

Caroling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carol

Carolling () of Carol

Carol (v. t.) To praise or celebrate in song.

Carol (v. t.) To sing, especially with joyful notes.

Carol (v. i.) To sing; esp. to sing joyfully; to warble.

Carol (n.) Alt. of Carrol

Carrol (n.) A small closet or inclosure built against a window on the inner side, to sit in for study. The word was used as late as the 16th century.

Carolin (n.) A former gold coin of Germany worth nearly five dollars; also, a gold coin of Sweden worth nearly five dollars.

Carolina pink () See Pinkboot.

Caroline (n.) A coin. See Carline.

Caroling (n.) A song of joy or devotion; a singing, as of carols.

Carolinian (n.) A native or inhabitant of north or South Carolina.

Carolitic (a.) Adorned with sculptured leaves and branches.

Caroluses (pl. ) of Carolus

Caroli (pl. ) of Carolus

Carolus (n.) An English gold coin of the value of twenty or twenty-three shillings. It was first struck in the reign of Charles I.

Carom (n.) A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contact with two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more balls with the player's ball. In England it is called cannon.

Carom (v. i.) To make a carom.

Caromel (n.) See Caramel.

Caroteel (n.) A tierce or cask for dried fruits, etc., usually about 700 lbs.

Carotic (a.) Of or pertaining to stupor; as, a carotic state.

Carotic (a.) Carotid; as, the carotic arteries.

Carotid (n.) One of the two main arteries of the neck, by which blood is conveyed from the aorta to the head. [See Illust. of Aorta.]

Carotid (a.) Alt. of Carotidal

Carotidal (a.) Pertaining to, or near, the carotids or one of them; as, the carotid gland.

Carotin (n.) A red crystallizable tasteless substance, extracted from the carrot.

Carousal (n.) A jovial feast or festival; a drunken revel; a carouse.

Carouse (n.) A large draught of liquor.

Carouse (n.) A drinking match; a carousal.

Caroused (imp. & p. p.) of Carouse

Carousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carouse

Carouse (v. i.) To drink deeply or freely in compliment; to take part in a carousal; to engage in drunken revels.

Carouse (v. t.) To drink up; to drain; to drink freely or jovially.

Carouser (n.) One who carouses; a reveler.

Carousing (a.) That carouses; relating to a carouse.

Carousingly (adv.) In the manner of a carouser.

Carped (imp. & p. p.) of Carp

Carping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carp

Carp (v. i.) To talk; to speak; to prattle.

Carp (v. i.) To find fault; to cavil; to censure words or actions without reason or ill-naturedly; -- usually followed by at.

Carp (v. t.) To say; to tell.

Carp (v. t.) To find fault with; to censure.

Carp (pl. ) of Carp

Carps (pl. ) of Carp

Carp (n.) A fresh-water herbivorous fish (Cyprinus carpio.). Several other species of Cyprinus, Catla, and Carassius are called carp. See Cruclan carp.

Carpal (a.) Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist.

Carpal (n.) One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; a carpale.

Carpalia (pl. ) of Carpale

Carpale (n.) One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; esp. one of the series articulating with the metacarpals.

Carpathian (a.) Of or pertaining to a range of mountains in Austro-Hungary, called the Carpathians, which partially inclose Hungary on the north, east, and south.

Carpel (n.) Alt. of Carpellum

Carpellum (n.) A simple pistil or single-celled ovary or seed vessel, or one of the parts of a compound pistil, ovary, or seed vessel. See Illust of Carpaphore.

Carpellary (a.) Belonging to, forming, or containing carpels.

Carpenter (n.) An artificer who works in timber; a framer and builder of houses, ships, etc.

Carpentering (n.) The occupation or work of a carpenter; the act of working in timber; carpentry.

Carpentry (n.) The art of cutting, framing, and joining timber, as in the construction of buildings.

Carpentry (n.) An assemblage of pieces of timber connected by being framed together, as the pieces of a roof, floor, etc.; work done by a carpenter.

Carper (n.) One who carps; a caviler.

Carpet (n.) A heavy woven or felted fabric, usually of wool, but also of cotton, hemp, straw, etc.; esp. a floor covering made in breadths to be sewed together and nailed to the floor, as distinguished from a rug or mat; originally, also, a wrought cover for tables.

Carpet (n.) A smooth soft covering resembling or suggesting a carpet.

Carpeted (imp. & p. p.) of Carpet

Carpeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carpet

Carpet (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a carpet; to spread with carpets; to furnish with a carpet or carpets.

Carpetbag (n.) A portable bag for travelers; -- so called because originally made of carpet.

Carpetbagger (n.) An adventurer; -- a term of contempt for a Northern man seeking private gain or political advancement in the southern part of the United States after the Civil War (1865).

Carpeting (n.) The act of covering with carpets.

Carpeting (n.) Cloth or materials for carpets; carpets, in general.

Carpetless (a.) Without a carpet.

Carpetmonger (n.) One who deals in carpets; a buyer and seller of carpets.

Carpetmonger (n.) One fond of pleasure; a gallant.

Carpetway (n.) A border of greensward left round the margin of a plowed field.

Carphology (n.) See Floccillation.

Carping (a.) Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See Captious.

Carpintero (n.) A california woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), noted for its habit of inserting acorns in holes which it drills in trees. The acorns become infested by insect larvae, which, when grown, are extracted for food by the bird.

Carpogenic (a.) Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed.

Carpolite (n.) A general term for a fossil fruit, nut, or seed.

Carpological (a.) Of or pertaining to carpology.

Carpologist (n.) One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology.

Carpology (n.) That branch of botany which relates to the structure of seeds and fruit.

Carpophagous (a.) Living on fruits; fruit-consuming.

Carpophore (n.) A slender prolongation of the receptacle as an axis between the carpels, as in Geranium and many umbelliferous plants.

Carpophyll (n.) A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of a fruit; a carpel. [See Illust. of Gymnospermous.]

Carpophyte (n.) A flowerless plant which forms a true fruit as the result of fertilization, as the red seaweeds, the Ascomycetes, etc.

Carpospore (n.) A kind of spore formed in the conceptacles of red algae.

Carpi (pl. ) of Carpus

Carpus (n.) The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, or antibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eight short bones disposed in two rows.

Carrack (n.) See Carack.

Carrageen (n.) Alt. of Carrigeen

Carrigeen (n.) A small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce.

Carrancha (n.) The Brazilian kite (Polyborus Brasiliensis); -- so called in imitation of its notes.

Carraway (n.) See Caraway.

Carrel (n.) See Quarrel, an arrow.

Carrel (n.) Same as 4th Carol.

Carriable (a.) Capable of being carried.

Carriage (n.) That which is carried; burden; baggage.

Carriage (n.) The act of carrying, transporting, or conveying.

Carriage (n.) The price or expense of carrying.

Carriage (n.) That which carries of conveys,

Carriage (n.) A wheeled vehicle for persons, esp. one designed for elegance and comfort.

Carriage (n.) A wheeled vehicle carrying a fixed burden, as a gun carriage.

Carriage (n.) A part of a machine which moves and carries of supports some other moving object or part.

Carriage (n.) A frame or cage in which something is carried or supported; as, a bell carriage.

Carriage (n.) The manner of carrying one's self; behavior; bearing; deportment; personal manners.

Carriage (n.) The act or manner of conducting measures or projects; management.

Carriageable (a.) Passable by carriages; that can be conveyed in carriages.

Carriboo (n.) See Caribou.

Carrick (n.) A carack. See Carack.

Carrier (n.) One who, or that which, carries or conveys; a messenger.

Carrier (n.) One who is employed, or makes it his business, to carry goods for others for hire; a porter; a teamster.

Carrier (n.) That which drives or carries; as: (a) A piece which communicates to an object in a lathe the motion of the face plate; a lathe dog. (b) A spool holder or bobbin holder in a braiding machine. (c) A movable piece in magazine guns which transfers the cartridge to a position from which it can be thrust into the barrel.

Carrion (n.) The dead and putrefying body or flesh of an animal; flesh so corrupted as to be unfit for food.

Carrion (n.) A contemptible or worthless person; -- a term of reproach.

Carrion (a.) Of or pertaining to dead and putrefying carcasses; feeding on carrion.

Carrol (n.) See 4th Carol.

Carrom (n.) See Carom.

Carronade (n.) A kind of short cannon, formerly in use, designed to throw a large projectile with small velocity, used for the purpose of breaking or smashing in, rather than piercing, the object aimed at, as the side of a ship. It has no trunnions, but is supported on its carriage by a bolt passing through a loop on its under side.

Carron oil () A lotion of linseed oil and lime water, used as an application to burns and scalds; -- first used at the Carron iron works in Scotland.

Carrot (n.) An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of many varieties.

Carrot (n.) The esculent root of cultivated varieties of the plant, usually spindle-shaped, and of a reddish yellow color.

Carroty (a.) Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given to reddish yellow hair, etc.

Carrow (n.) A strolling gamester.

Carried (imp. & p. p.) of Carry

Carrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carry

Carry (v. t.) To convey or transport in any manner from one place to another; to bear; -- often with away or off.

Carry (v. t.) To have or hold as a burden, while moving from place to place; to have upon or about one's person; to bear; as, to carry a wound; to carry an unborn child.

Carry (v. t.) To move; to convey by force; to impel; to conduct; to lead or guide.

Carry (v. t.) To transfer from one place (as a country, book, or column) to another; as, to carry the war from Greece into Asia; to carry an account to the ledger; to carry a number in adding figures.

Carry (v. t.) To convey by extension or continuance; to extend; as, to carry the chimney through the roof; to carry a road ten miles farther.

Carry (v. t.) To bear or uphold successfully through conflict, as a leader or principle; hence, to succeed in, as in a contest; to bring to a successful issue; to win; as, to carry an election.

Carry (v. t.) To get possession of by force; to capture.

Carry (v. t.) To contain; to comprise; to bear the aspect of ; to show or exhibit; to imply.

Carry (v. t.) To bear (one's self); to behave, to conduct or demean; -- with the reflexive pronouns.

Carry (v. t.) To bear the charges or burden of holding or having, as stocks, merchandise, etc., from one time to another; as, a merchant is carrying a large stock; a farm carries a mortgage; a broker carries stock for a customer; to carry a life insurance.

Carry (v. i.) To act as a bearer; to convey anything; as, to fetch and carry.

Carry (v. i.) To have propulsive power; to propel; as, a gun or mortar carries well.

Carry (v. i.) To hold the head; -- said of a horse; as, to carry well i. e., to hold the head high, with arching neck.

Carry (v. i.) To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as a hare.

Carries (pl. ) of Carry

Carry (n.) A tract of land, over which boats or goods are carried between two bodies of navigable water; a carrying place; a portage.

Carryall (n.) A light covered carriage, having four wheels and seats for four or more persons, usually drawn by one horse.

Carrying (n.) The act or business of transporting from one place to another.

Carryk (n.) A carack.

Carrytale (n.) A talebearer.

Carse (n.) Low, fertile land; a river valley.

Cart (n.) A common name for various kinds of vehicles, as a Scythian dwelling on wheels, or a chariot.

Cart (n.) A two-wheeled vehicle for the ordinary purposes of husbandry, or for transporting bulky and heavy articles.

Cart (n.) A light business wagon used by bakers, grocerymen, butchers, etc.

Cart (n.) An open two-wheeled pleasure carriage.

Carted (imp. & p. p.) of Cart

Carting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cart

Cart (v. t.) To carry or convey in a cart.

Cart (v. t.) To expose in a cart by way of punishment.

Cart (v. i.) To carry burdens in a cart; to follow the business of a carter.

Cartage (n.) The act of carrying in a cart.

Cartage (n.) The price paid for carting.

Cartbote (n.) Wood to which a tenant is entitled for making and repairing carts and other instruments of husbandry.

Carte (n.) Bill of fare.

Carte (n.) Short for Carte de visite.

Carte (n.) Alt. of Quarte

Quarte (n.) A position in thrusting or parrying, with the inside of the hand turned upward and the point of the weapon toward the adversary's right breast.

Carte blanche () A blank paper, with a person's signature, etc., at the bottom, given to another person, with permission to superscribe what conditions he pleases. Hence: Unconditional terms; unlimited authority.

Cartes de visite (pl. ) of Carte de visite

Carte de visite () A visiting card.

Carte de visite () A photographic picture of the size formerly in use for a visiting card.

Cartel (n.) An agreement between belligerents for the exchange of prisoners.

Cartel (n.) A letter of defiance or challenge; a challenge to single combat.

Cartel (v. t.) To defy or challenge.

Carter (n.) A charioteer.

Carter (n.) A man who drives a cart; a teamster.

Carter (n.) Any species of Phalangium; -- also called harvestman

Carter (n.) A British fish; the whiff.

Cartesian (a.) Of or pertaining to the French philosopher Rene Descartes, or his philosophy.

Cartesian (n.) An adherent of Descartes.

Cartesianism (n.) The philosophy of Descartes.

Carthaginian (a.) Of a pertaining to ancient Carthage, a city of northern Africa.

Carthaginian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Carthage.

Carthamin (n.) A red coloring matter obtained from the safflower, or Carthamus tinctorius.

Carthusian (n.) A member of an exceeding austere religious order, founded at Chartreuse in France by St. Bruno, in the year 1086.

Carthusian (a.) Pertaining to the Carthusian.

Cartilage (n.) A translucent, elastic tissue; gristle.

Cartilagineous (a.) See Cartilaginous.

Cartilaginification (n.) The act or process of forming cartilage.

Cartilaginous (a.) Of or pertaining to cartilage; gristly; firm and tough like cartilage.

Cartilaginous (a.) Having the skeleton in the state of cartilage, the bones containing little or no calcareous matter; said of certain fishes, as the sturgeon and the sharks.

Cartman (n.) One who drives or uses a cart; a teamster; a carter.

Cartographer (n.) One who makes charts or maps.

Cartographic (a.) Alt. of Cartographical

Cartographical (a.) Of or pertaining to cartography.

Cartographically (adv.) By cartography.

Cartography (n.) The art or business of forming charts or maps.

Cartomancy (n.) The art of telling fortunes with cards.

Carton (n.) Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box.

Cartoon (n.) A design or study drawn of the full size, to serve as a model for transferring or copying; -- used in the making of mosaics, tapestries, fresco pantings and the like; as, the cartoons of Raphael.

Cartoon (n.) A large pictorial sketch, as in a journal or magazine; esp. a pictorial caricature; as, the cartoons of Puck.

Cartoonist (n.) One skilled in drawing cartoons.

Cartouches (pl. ) of Cartouch

Cartouch (n.) A roll or case of paper, etc., holding a charge for a firearm; a cartridge

Cartouch (n.) A cartridge box.

Cartouch (n.) A wooden case filled with balls, to be shot from a cannon.

Cartouch (n.) A gunner's bag for ammunition

Cartouch (n.) A military pass for a soldier on furlough.

Cartouch (n.) A cantalever, console, corbel, or modillion, which has the form of a scroll of paper

Cartouch (n.) A tablet for ornament, or for receiving an inscription, formed like a sheet of paper with the edges rolled up; hence, any tablet of ornamental form.

Cartouch (n.) An oval figure on monuments, and in papyri, containing the name of a sovereign.

Cartridge (n.) A complete charge for a firearm, contained in, or held together by, a case, capsule, or shell of metal, pasteboard, or other material.

Cartularies (pl. ) of Cartulary

Cartulary (n.) A register, or record, as of a monastery or church.

Cartulary (n.) An ecclesiastical officer who had charge of records or other public papers.

Cartway (n.) A way or road for carts.

Cartwright (n.) An artificer who makes carts; a cart maker.

Carucage (n.) A tax on every plow or plowland.

Carucage (n.) The act of plowing.

Carucate (n.) A plowland; as much land as one team can plow in a year and a day; -- by some said to be about 100 acres.

Caruncle (n.) Alt. of Caruncula

Caruncula (n.) A small fleshy prominence or excrescence; especially the small, reddish body, the caruncula lacrymalis, in the inner angle of the eye.

Caruncula (n.) An excrescence or appendage surrounding or near the hilum of a seed.

Caruncula (n.) A naked, flesh appendage, on the head of a bird, as the wattles of a turkey, etc.

Caruncular (a.) Alt. of Carunculous

Carunculous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, a caruncle; furnished with caruncles.

Carunculate (a.) Alt. of Carunculated

Carunculated (a.) Having a caruncle or caruncles; caruncular.

Carus (n.) Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy.

Carvacrol (n.) A thick oily liquid, C10H13.OH, of a strong taste and disagreeable odor, obtained from oil of caraway (Carum carui).

Carved (imp. & p. p.) of Carve

Carving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carve

Carve (v. t.) To cut.

Carve (v. t.) To cut, as wood, stone, or other material, in an artistic or decorative manner; to sculpture; to engrave.

Carve (v. t.) To make or shape by cutting, sculpturing, or engraving; to form; as, to carve a name on a tree.

Carve (v. t.) To cut into small pieces or slices, as meat at table; to divide for distribution or apportionment; to apportion.

Carve (v. t.) To cut: to hew; to mark as if by cutting.

Carve (v. t.) To take or make, as by cutting; to provide.

Carve (v. t.) To lay out; to contrive; to design; to plan.

Carve (v. i.) To exercise the trade of a sculptor or carver; to engrave or cut figures.

Carve (v. i.) To cut up meat; as, to carve for all the guests.

Carve (n.) A carucate.

Carvel (n.) Same as Caravel.

Carvel (n.) A species of jellyfish; sea blubber.

Carvelbuilt (a.) Having the planks meet flush at the seams, instead of lapping as in a clinker-built vessel.

Carven (a.) Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved.

Carvene (n.) An oily substance, C10H16, extracted from oil caraway.

Carver (n.) One who carves; one who shapes or fashions by carving, or as by carving; esp. one who carves decorative forms, architectural adornments, etc.

Carver (n.) One who carves or divides meat at table.

Carver (n.) A large knife for carving.

Carving (n.) The act or art of one who carves.

Carving (n.) A piece of decorative work cut in stone, wood, or other material.

Carving (n.) The whole body of decorative sculpture of any kind or epoch, or in any material; as, the Italian carving of the 15th century.

Carvist (n.) A hawk which is of proper age and training to be carried on the hand; a hawk in its first year.

Carvol (n.) One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol.

Car wheel () A flanged wheel of a railway car or truck.

Caryatic (a.) Alt. of Caryatid

Caryatid (a.) Of or pertaining to a caryatid.

Caryatids (pl. ) of Caryatid

Caryatid (n.) A draped female figure supporting an entablature, in the place of a column or pilaster.

Caryatides (n. pl.) Caryatids.

Caryophyllaceous (a.) Having corollas of five petals with long claws inclosed in a tubular, calyx, as the pink

Caryophyllaceous (a.) Belonging to the family of which the pink and the carnation are the types.

Caryophyllin (n.) A tasteless and odorless crystalline substance, extracted from cloves, polymeric with common camphor.

Caryophyllous (a.) Caryophyllaceous.

Caryopses (pl. ) of Caryopsis

Caryopsis (n.) A one-celled, dry, indehiscent fruit, with a thin membranous pericarp, adhering closely to the seed, so that fruit and seed are incorporated in one body, forming a single grain, as of wheat, barley, etc.

Casal (a.) Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending.

Cascabel (n.) The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually a knob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck. In old writers it included all in rear of the base ring. [See Illust. of Cannon.]

Cascade (n.) A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; a waterfall less than a cataract.

Cascade (v. i.) To fall in a cascade.

Cascade (v. i.) To vomit.

Cascalho (n.) A deposit of pebbles, gravel, and ferruginous sand, in which the Brazilian diamond is usually found.

Cascara sagrada () Holy bark; the bark of the California buckthorn (Rhamnus Purshianus), used as a mild cathartic or laxative.

Cascarilla (n.) A euphorbiaceous West Indian shrub (Croton Eleutheria); also, its aromatic bark.

Cascarillin (n.) A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil of cascarilla.

Case (n.) A box, sheath, or covering; as, a case for holding goods; a case for spectacles; the case of a watch; the case (capsule) of a cartridge; a case (cover) for a book.

Case (n.) A box and its contents; the quantity contained in a box; as, a case of goods; a case of instruments.

Case (n.) A shallow tray divided into compartments or boxes for holding type.

Case (n.) An inclosing frame; a casing; as, a door case; a window case.

Case (n.) A small fissure which admits water to the workings.

Cased (imp. & p. p.) of Case

Casing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Case

Case (v. t.) To cover or protect with, or as with, a case; to inclose.

Case (v. t.) To strip the skin from; as, to case a box.

Case (n.) Chance; accident; hap; opportunity.

Case (n.) That which befalls, comes, or happens; an event; an instance; a circumstance, or all the circumstances; condition; state of things; affair; as, a strange case; a case of injustice; the case of the Indian tribes.

Case (n.) A patient under treatment; an instance of sickness or injury; as, ten cases of fever; also, the history of a disease or injury.

Case (n.) The matters of fact or conditions involved in a suit, as distinguished from the questions of law; a suit or action at law; a cause.

Case (n.) One of the forms, or the inflections or changes of form, of a noun, pronoun, or adjective, which indicate its relation to other words, and in the aggregate constitute its declension; the relation which a noun or pronoun sustains to some other word.

Case (v. i.) To propose hypothetical cases.

Caseation (n.) A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.

Case-bay (n.) The space between two principals or girders

Case-bay (n.) One of the joists framed between a pair of girders in naked flooring.

Caseharden (v. t.) To subject to a process which converts the surface of iron into steel.

Caseharden (v. t.) To render insensible to good influences.

Casehardened (a.) Having the surface hardened, as iron tools.

Casehardened (a.) Hardened against, or insusceptible to, good influences; rendered callous by persistence in wrongdoing or resistance of good influences; -- said of persons.

Casehardening (n.) The act or process of converting the surface of iron into steel.

Caseic (a.) Of or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid.

Casein (n.) A proteid substance present in both the animal and the vegetable kingdom. In the animal kingdom it is chiefly found in milk, and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in the vegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds of leguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin.

Case knife () A knife carried in a sheath or case.

Case knife () A large table knife; -- so called from being formerly kept in a case.

Casemate (n.) A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may be placed, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being used as a magazine, or for quartering troops.

Casemate (n.) A hollow molding, chiefly in cornices.

Casemated (a.) Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate.

Casement (n.) A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side of the frame into which it is fitted. (Poetically) A window.

Casemented (a.) Having a casement or casements.

Caseous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualities of cheese; cheesy.

Casern (n.) A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the rampart; barracks.

Case shot () A collection of small projectiles, inclosed in a case or canister.

Caseum (n.) Same as Casein.

Caseworm (n.) A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice.

Cash (n.) A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid out; a money box.

Cash (n.) Ready money; especially, coin or specie; but also applied to bank notes, drafts, bonds, or any paper easily convertible into money

Cash (n.) Immediate or prompt payment in current funds; as, to sell goods for cash; to make a reduction in price for cash.

Cashed (imp. & p. p.) of Cash

Casing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cash

Cash (v. t.) To pay, or to receive, cash for; to exchange for money; as, cash a note or an order.

Cash (v. t.) To disband.

Cash (n.sing & pl.) A Chinese coin.

Cashbook (n.) A book in which is kept a register of money received or paid out.

Cashew (n.) A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which the sumac. It is native in tropical America, but is now naturalized in all tropical countries. Its fruit, a kidney-shaped nut, grows at the extremity of an edible, pear-shaped hypocarp, about three inches long.

Cashier (n.) One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who has charge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of a bank or a mercantile company.

Cahiered (imp. & p. p.) of Cashier

Cashiering (p. pr. &vb. n.) of Cashier

Cashier (v. t.) To dismiss or discard; to discharge; to dismiss with ignominy from military service or from an office or place of trust.

Cashier (v. t.) To put away or reject; to disregard.

Cashierer (n.) One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer of monarchs.

Cashmere (n.) A rich stuff for shawls, scarfs, etc., originally made in Cashmere from the soft wool found beneath the hair of the goats of Cashmere, Thibet, and the Himalayas. Some cashmere, of fine quality, is richly embroidered for sale to Europeans.

Cashmere (n.) A dress fabric made of fine wool, or of fine wool and cotton, in imitation of the original cashmere.

Cashmerette (n.) A kind of dress goods, made with a soft and glossy surface like cashmere.

Cashoo (n.) See Catechu.

Casing (n.) The act or process of inclosing in, or covering with, a case or thin substance, as plaster, boards, etc.

Casing (n.) An outside covering, for protection or ornament, or to precent the radiation of heat.

Casing (n.) An inclosing frame; esp. the framework around a door or a window. See Case, n., 4.

Casings (n. pl.) Dried dung of cattle used as fuel.

Casinos (pl. ) of Casino

Casini (pl. ) of Casino

Casino (n.) A small country house.

Casino (n.) A building or room used for meetings, or public amusements, for dancing, gaming, etc.

Casino (n.) A game at cards. See Cassino.

Cask (n.) Same as Casque.

Cask (n.) A barrel-shaped vessel made of staves headings, and hoops, usually fitted together so as to hold liquids. It may be larger or smaller than a barrel.

Cask (n.) The quantity contained in a cask.

Cask (n.) A casket; a small box for jewels.

Cask (v. t.) To put into a cask.

Casket (n.) A small chest or box, esp. of rich material or ornamental character, as for jewels, etc.

Casket (n.) A kind of burial case.

Casket (n.) Anything containing or intended to contain something highly esteemed

Casket (n.) The body.

Casket (n.) The tomb.

Casket (n.) A book of selections.

Casket (n.) A gasket. See Gasket.

Casket (v. t.) To put into, or preserve in, a casket.

Casque (n.) A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without a vizor) for the head and neck; a helmet.

Cass (v. t.) To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away.

Cassada (n.) See Cassava.

Cassareep (n.) A condiment made from the sap of the bitter cassava (Manihot utilissima) deprived of its poisonous qualities, concentrated by boiling, and flavored with aromatics. See Pepper pot.

Cassate (v. t.) To render void or useless; to vacate or annul.

Cassation (n.) The act of annulling.

Cassava (n.) A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, with fleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.

Cassava (n.) A nutritious starch obtained from the rootstocks of the cassava plant, used as food and in making tapioca.

Casse Paper () Broken paper; the outside quires of a ream.

Casserole (n.) A small round dish with a handle, usually of porcelain.

Casserole (n.) A mold (in the shape of a hollow vessel or incasement) of boiled rice, mashed potato or paste, baked, and afterwards filled with vegetables or meat.

Cassia (n.) A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of many species, most of which have purgative qualities. The leaves of several species furnish the senna used in medicine.

Cassia (n.) The bark of several species of Cinnamomum grown in China, etc.; Chinese cinnamon. It is imported as cassia, but commonly sold as cinnamon, from which it differs more or less in strength and flavor, and the amount of outer bark attached.

Cassican (n.) An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlings and orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspended nest; the crested oriole. The name is also sometimes given to the piping crow, an Australian bird.

Cassideous (a.) Helmet-shaped; -- applied to a corolla having a broad, helmet-shaped upper petal, as in aconite.

Cassidony (n.) The French lavender (Lavandula Stoechas)

Cassidony (n.) The goldilocks (Chrysocoma Linosyris) and perhaps other plants related to the genus Gnaphalium or cudweed.

Cassimere (n.) A thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments.

Cassinette (n.) A cloth with a cotton warp, and a woof of very fine wool, or wool and silk.

Cassinian ovals () See under Oval.

Cassino (n.) A game at cards, played by two or more persons, usually for twenty-one points.

Cassioberry (n.) The fruit of the Viburnum obovatum, a shrub which grows from Virginia to Florida.

Cassiopeia (n.) A constellation of the northern hemisphere, situated between Cepheus and Perseus; -- so called in honor of the wife of Cepheus, a fabulous king of Ethiopia.

Cassiterite (n.) Native tin dioxide; tin stone; a mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals of reddish brown color, and brilliant adamantine luster; also massive, sometimes in compact forms with concentric fibrous structure resembling wood (wood tin), also in rolled fragments or pebbly (Stream tin). It is the chief source of metallic tin. See Black tin, under Black.

Cassius (n.) A brownish purple pigment, obtained by the action of some compounds of tin upon certain salts of gold. It is used in painting and staining porcelain and glass to give a beautiful purple color. Commonly called Purple of Cassius.

Cassock (n.) A long outer garment formerly worn by men and women, as well as by soldiers as part of their uniform.

Cassock (n.) A garment resembling a long frock coat worn by the clergy of certain churches when officiating, and by others as the usually outer garment.

Cassocked (a.) Clothed with a cassock.

Cassolette (n.) a box, or vase, with a perforated cover to emit perfumes.

Cassonade (n.) Raw sugar; sugar not refined.

Cassowaries (pl. ) of Cassowary

Cassowary (n.) A large bird, of the genus Casuarius, found in the east Indies. It is smaller and stouter than the ostrich. Its head is armed with a kind of helmet of horny substance, consisting of plates overlapping each other, and it has a group of long sharp spines on each wing which are used as defensive organs. It is a shy bird, and runs with great rapidity. Other species inhabit New Guinea, Australia, etc.

Cassumunar (n.) Alt. of Cassumuniar

Cassumuniar (n.) A pungent, bitter, aromatic, gingerlike root, obtained from the East Indies.

Cast (imp. & p. p.) of Cast

Casting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cast

Cast (v. t.) To send or drive by force; to throw; to fling; to hurl; to impel.

Cast (v. t.) To direct or turn, as the eyes.

Cast (v. t.) To drop; to deposit; as, to cast a ballot.

Cast (v. t.) To throw down, as in wrestling.

Cast (v. t.) To throw up, as a mound, or rampart.

Cast (v. t.) To throw off; to eject; to shed; to lose.

Cast (v. t.) To bring forth prematurely; to slink.

Cast (v. t.) To throw out or emit; to exhale.

Cast (v. t.) To cause to fall; to shed; to reflect; to throw; as, to cast a ray upon a screen; to cast light upon a subject.

Cast (v. t.) To impose; to bestow; to rest.

Cast (v. t.) To dismiss; to discard; to cashier.

Cast (v. t.) To compute; to reckon; to calculate; as, to cast a horoscope.

Cast (v. t.) To contrive; to plan.

Cast (v. t.) To defeat in a lawsuit; to decide against; to convict; as, to be cast in damages.

Cast (v. t.) To turn (the balance or scale); to overbalance; hence, to make preponderate; to decide; as, a casting voice.

Cast (v. t.) To form into a particular shape, by pouring liquid metal or other material into a mold; to fashion; to found; as, to cast bells, stoves, bullets.

Cast (v. t.) To stereotype or electrotype.

Cast (v. t.) To fix, distribute, or allot, as the parts of a play among actors; also to assign (an actor) for a part.

Cast (v. i.) To throw, as a line in angling, esp, with a fly hook.

Cast (v. i.) To turn the head of a vessel around from the wind in getting under weigh.

Cast (v. i.) To consider; to turn or revolve in the mind; to plan; as, to cast about for reasons.

Cast (v. i.) To calculate; to compute.

Cast (v. i.) To receive form or shape in a mold.

Cast (v. i.) To warp; to become twisted out of shape.

Cast (v. i.) To vomit.

Cast () 3d pres. of Cast, for Casteth.

Cast (n.) The act of casting or throwing; a throw.

Cast (n.) The thing thrown.

Cast (n.) The distance to which a thing is or can be thrown.

Cast (n.) A throw of dice; hence, a chance or venture.

Cast (n.) That which is throw out or off, shed, or ejected; as, the skin of an insect, the refuse from a hawk's stomach, the excrement of a earthworm.

Cast (n.) The act of casting in a mold.

Cast (n.) An impression or mold, taken from a thing or person; amold; a pattern.

Cast (n.) That which is formed in a mild; esp. a reproduction or copy, as of a work of art, in bronze or plaster, etc.; a casting.

Cast (n.) Form; appearence; mien; air; style; as, a peculiar cast of countenance.

Cast (n.) A tendency to any color; a tinge; a shade.

Cast (n.) A chance, opportunity, privilege, or advantage; specifically, an opportunity of riding; a lift.

Cast (n.) The assignment of parts in a play to the actors.

Cast (n.) A flight or a couple or set of hawks let go at one time from the hand.

Cast (n.) A stoke, touch, or trick.

Cast (n.) A motion or turn, as of the eye; direction; look; glance; squint.

Cast (n.) A tube or funnel for conveying metal into a mold.

Cast (n.) Four; that is, as many as are thrown into a vessel at once in counting herrings, etc; a warp.

Cast (n.) Contrivance; plot, design.

Castalian (a.) Of or pertaining to Castalia, a mythical fountain of inspiration on Mt. Parnassus sacred to the Muses.

Castanea (n.) A genus of nut-bearing trees or shrubs including the chestnut and chinquapin.

Castanet (n.) See Castanets.

Castanets (n. pl.) Two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped like spoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middle finger; -- used by the Spaniards and Moors as an accompaniment to their dance and guitars.

Castaway (n.) One who, or that which, is cast away or shipwrecked.

Castaway (n.) One who is ruined; one who has made moral shipwreck; a reprobate.

Castaway (a.) Of no value; rejected; useless.

Caste (n.) One of the hereditary classes into which the Hindoos are divided according to the laws of Brahmanism.

Caste (n.) A separate and fixed order or class of persons in society who chiefly hold intercourse among themselves.

Castellan (n.) A governor or warden of a castle.

Castellanies (pl. ) of Castellany

Castellany (n.) The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdiction appertaining to a castle.

Castellated (a.) Inclosed within a building; as, a fountain or cistern castellated.

Castellated (a.) Furnished with turrets and battlements, like a castle; built in the style of a castle.

Castellation (n.) The act of making into a castle.

Caster (n.) One who casts; as, caster of stones, etc. ; a caster of cannon; a caster of accounts.

Caster (n.) A vial, cruet, or other small vessel, used to contain condiments at the table; as, a set of casters.

Caster (n.) A stand to hold a set of cruets.

Caster (n.) A small wheel on a swivel, on which furniture is supported and moved.

Castigated (imp. & p. p.) of Castigate

Castigating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Castigate

Castigate (v. t.) To punish by stripes; to chastise by blows; to chasten; also, to chastise verbally; to reprove; to criticise severely.

Castigate (v. t.) To emend; to correct.

Castigation (n.) Corrective punishment; chastisement; reproof; pungent criticism.

Castigation (n.) Emendation; correction.

Castigator (n.) One who castigates or corrects.

Castigatory (a.) Punitive in order to amendment; corrective.

Castigatory (n.) An instrument formerly used to punish and correct arrant scolds; -- called also a ducking stool, or trebucket.

Castile soap () A kind of fine, hard, white or mottled soap, made with olive oil and soda; also, a soap made in imitation of the above-described soap.

Castilian (n.) An inhabitant or native of Castile, in Spain.

Castilian (n.) The Spanish language as spoken in Castile.

Castillan (a.) Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain.

Casting (n.) The act of one who casts or throws, as in fishing.

Casting (n.) The act or process of making casts or impressions, or of shaping metal or plaster in a mold; the act or the process of pouring molten metal into a mold.

Casting (n.) That which is cast in a mold; esp. the mass of metal so cast; as, a casting in iron; bronze casting.

Casting (n.) The warping of a board.

Casting (n.) The act of casting off, or that which is cast off, as skin, feathers, excrement, etc.

Cast iron () Highly carbonized iron, the direct product of the blast furnace; -- used for making castings, and for conversion into wrought iron and steel. It can not be welded or forged, is brittle, and sometimes very hard. Besides carbon, it contains sulphur, phosphorus, silica, etc.

Cast-iron (a.) Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.: like cast iron; hardy; unyielding.

Castle (n.) A fortified residence, especially that of a prince or nobleman; a fortress.

Castle (n.) Any strong, imposing, and stately mansion.

Castle (n.) A small tower, as on a ship, or an elephant's back.

Castle (n.) A piece, made to represent a castle, used in the game of chess; a rook.

Castled (imp. & p. p.) of Castle

Castling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Castle

Castle (v. i.) To move the castle to the square next to king, and then the king around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purpose of covering the king.

Castlebuilder (n.) Fig.: one who builds castles in the air or forms visionary schemes.

Castled (a.) Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castled height or crag.

Castled (a.) Fortified; turreted; as, castled walls.

Castle-guard (n.) The guard or defense of a castle.

Castle-guard (n.) A tax or imposition an a dwelling within a certain distance of a castle, for the purpose of maintaining watch and ward in it; castle-ward.

Castle-guard (n.) A feudal tenure, obliging the tenant to perform service within the realm, without limitation of time.

Castlery (n.) The government of a castle.

Castlet (n.) A small castle.

Castleward (n.) Same as Castleguard.

Castling (n.) That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.

Castling (n.) A compound move of the king and castle. See Castle, v. i.

Cast-off (a.) Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes.

Castor (n.) A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.

Castor (n.) Castoreum. See Castoreum.

Castor (n.) A hat, esp. one made of beaver fur; a beaver.

Castor (n.) A heavy quality of broadcloth for overcoats.

Castor (n.) See Caster, a small wheel.

Castor (n.) the northernmost of the two bright stars in the constellation Gemini, the other being Pollux.

Castor (n.) Alt. of Castorite

Castorite (n.) A variety of the mineral called petalite, from Elba.

Castor and Pollux () See Saint Elmo's fire, under Saint.

Castor bean () The bean or seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi.)

Castoreum (n.) A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong, penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and external genitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as an antispasmodic, and by perfumers.

Castorin (n.) A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum.

Castor oil () A mild cathartic oil, expressed or extracted from the seeds of the Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi. When fresh the oil is inodorous and insipid.

Castrametation (n.) The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of a camp.

Castrated (imp. & p. p.) of Castrate

Castrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Castrate

Castrate (v. t.) To deprive of the testicles; to emasculate; to geld; to alter.

Castrate (v. t.) To cut or take out; esp. to remove anything erroneous, or objectionable from, as the obscene parts of a writing; to expurgate.

Castration (n.) The act of castrating.

Castrato (n.) A male person castrated for the purpose of improving his voice for singing; an artificial, or male, soprano.

Castrel (n.) See Kestrel.

Castrensial (a.) Belonging to a camp.

Castrensian (a.) Castrensial.

Cast steel () See Cast steel, under Steel.

Casual (a.) Happening or coming to pass without design, and without being foreseen or expected; accidental; fortuitous; coming by chance.

Casual (a.) Coming without regularity; occasional; incidental; as, casual expenses.

Casual (n.) One who receives relief for a night in a parish to which he does not belong; a vagrant.

Casualism (n.) The doctrine that all things exist or are controlled by chance.

Casualist (n.) One who believes in casualism.

Casually (adv.) Without design; accidentally; fortuitously; by chance; occasionally.

Casualness (n.) The quality of being casual.

Casualties (pl. ) of Casualty

Casualty (n.) That which comes without design or without being foreseen; contingency.

Casualty (n.) Any injury of the body from accident; hence, death, or other misfortune, occasioned by an accident; as, an unhappy casualty.

Casualty (n.) Numerical loss caused by death, wounds, discharge, or desertion.

Casuarina (n.) A genus of leafless trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets of a rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia. Some of them are large, producing hard and heavy timber of excellent quality, called beefwood from its color.

Casuist (n.) One who is skilled in, or given to, casuistry.

Casuist (v. i.) To play the casuist.

Casuistic (a.) Alt. of Casuistieal

Casuistieal (a.) Of or pertaining to casuists or casuistry.

Casuistry (a.) The science or doctrine of dealing with cases of conscience, of resolving questions of right or wrong in conduct, or determining the lawfulness or unlawfulness of what a man may do by rules and principles drawn from the Scriptures, from the laws of society or the church, or from equity and natural reason; the application of general moral rules to particular cases.

Casuistry (a.) Sophistical, equivocal, or false reasoning or teaching in regard to duties, obligations, and morals.

Casus (n.) An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination of circumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident.

Cat (n.) An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. The domestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus) is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the name wild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wild cat, and Tiger cat.

Cat (n.) A strong vessel with a narrow stern, projecting quarters, and deep waist. It is employed in the coal and timber trade.

Cat (n.) A strong tackle used to draw an anchor up to the cathead of a ship.

Cat (n.) A double tripod (for holding a plate, etc.), having six feet, of which three rest on the ground, in whatever position in is placed.

Cat (n.) An old game; (a) The game of tipcat and the implement with which it is played. See Tipcat. (c) A game of ball, called, according to the number of batters, one old cat, two old cat, etc.

Cat (n.) A cat o' nine tails. See below.

tted (imp. & p. p.) of Cat

Catting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cat

Cat (v. t.) To bring to the cathead; as, to cat an anchor. See Anchor.

Cata () The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as a prefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposed to, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes drops the final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath, as in cathartic, catholic.

Catabaptist (n.) One who opposes baptism, especially of infants.

Catabasion (n.) A vault under altar of a Greek church.

Catabiotic (a.) See under Force.

Catacaustic (a.) Relating to, or having the properties of, a caustic curve formed by reflection. See Caustic, a.

Catacaustic (n.) A caustic curve formed by reflection of light.

Catachresis (n.) A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or by which a word is wrested from its true signification; as, To take arms against a sea of troubles. Shak. Her voice was but the shadow of a sound. Young.

Catachrestic (a.) Alt. of Catachrestical

Catachrestical (a.) Belonging to, or in the manner of, a catachresis; wrested from its natural sense or form; forced; far-fetched.

Cataclysm (n.) An extensive overflow or sweeping flood of water; a deluge.

Cataclysm (n.) Any violent catastrophe, involving sudden and extensive changes of the earth's surface.

Cataclysmal (a.) Alt. of Cataclysmic

Cataclysmic (a.) Of or pertaining to a cataclysm.

Cataclysmist (n.) One who believes that the most important geological phenomena have been produced by cataclysms.

Catacomb (n.) A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used for the burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.

Catacoustic (n.) That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds or echoes See Acoustics.

Catadioptric (a.) Alt. of Catadioptrical

Catadioptrical (a.) Pertaining to, produced by, or involving, both the reflection and refraction of light; as, a catadioptric light.

Catadioptrics (n.) The science which treats of catadioptric phenomena, or of the used of catadioptric instruments.

Catadrome (n.) A race course.

Catadrome (n.) A machine for raising or lowering heavy weights.

Catadromous (a.) Having the lowest inferior segment of a pinna nearer the rachis than the lowest superior one; -- said of a mode of branching in ferns, and opposed to anadromous.

Catadromous (a.) Living in fresh water, and going to the sea to spawn; -- opposed to anadromous, and said of the eel.

Catafalco (n.) See Catafalque.

Catafalque (n.) A temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnities of eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, or their conveyance to the place of burial.

Catagmatic (a.) Having the quality of consolidating broken bones.

Cataian (n.) A native of Cathay or China; a foreigner; -- formerly a term of reproach.

Catalan (a.) Of or pertaining to Catalonia.

Catalan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Catalonia; also, the language of Catalonia.

Catalectic (a.) Wanting a syllable at the end, or terminating in an imperfect foot; as, a catalectic verse.

Catalectic (a.) Incomplete; partial; not affecting the whole of a substance.

Catalepsy (n.) Alt. of Catalepsis

Catalepsis (n.) A sudden suspension of sensation and volition, the body and limbs preserving the position that may be given them, while the action of the heart and lungs continues.

Cataleptic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, catalepsy; affected with catalepsy; as, a cataleptic fit.

Catallacta (n. pl.) A division of Protozoa, of which Magosphaera is the type. They exist both in a myxopod state, with branched pseudopodia, and in the form of ciliated bodies united in free, spherical colonies.

Catallactics (n.) The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy.

Catalog (n. & v.) Catalogue.

Catalogize (v. t.) To insert in a catalogue; to register; to catalogue.

Catalogue (n.) A list or enumeration of names, or articles arranged methodically, often in alphabetical order; as, a catalogue of the students of a college, or of books, or of the stars.

Catalogued (imp. & p. p.) of Catalogue

Cataloguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catalogue

Catalogue (v. t.) To make a list or catalogue; to insert in a catalogue.

Cataloguer (n.) A maker of catalogues; esp. one skilled in the making of catalogues.

Catalpa (n.) A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the best know species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental North American tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods, and the C. speciosa, of the Mississipi valley; -- called also Indian bean.

Catalyse (pl. ) of Catalysis

Catalysis (n.) Dissolution; degeneration; decay.

Catalysis (n.) A process by which reaction occurs in the presence of certain agents which were formerly believed to exert an influence by mere contact. It is now believed that such reactions are attended with the formation of an intermediate compound or compounds, so that by alternate composition and decomposition the agent is apparenty left unchanged; as, the catalysis of making ether from alcohol by means of sulphuric acid; or catalysis in the action of soluble ferments (as diastase, or ptyalin) on starch.

Catalysis (n.) The catalytic force.

Catalytic (a.) Relating to, or causing, catalysis.

Catalytic (n.) An agent employed in catalysis, as platinum black, aluminium chloride, etc.

Catamaran (n.) A kind of raft or float, consisting of two or more logs or pieces of wood lashed together, and moved by paddles or sail; -- used as a surf boat and for other purposes on the coasts of the East and West Indies and South America. Modified forms are much used in the lumber regions of North America, and at life-saving stations.

Catamaran (n.) Any vessel with twin hulls, whether propelled by sails or by steam; esp., one of a class of double-hulled pleasure boats remarkable for speed.

Catamaran (n.) A kind of fire raft or torpedo bat.

Catamaran (n.) A quarrelsome woman; a scold.

Catamenia (n. pl.) The monthly courses of women; menstrual discharges; menses.

Catamenial (a.) Pertaining to the catamenia, or menstrual discharges.

Catamite (n.) A boy kept for unnatural purposes.

Catamount (n.) The cougar. Applied also, in some parts of the United States, to the lynx.

Catanadromous (a.) Ascending and descending fresh streams from and to the sea, as the salmon; anadromous.

Catapasm (n.) A compound medicinal powder, used by the ancients to sprinkle on ulcers, to absorb perspiration, etc.

Catapeltic (a.) Of or pertaining to a catapult.

Catapetalous (a.) Having the petals held together by stamens, which grow to their bases, as in the mallow.

Cataphonic (a.) Of or relating to cataphonics; catacoustic.

Cataphonics (n.) That branch of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds; catacoustics.

Cataphract (n.) Defensive armor used for the whole body and often for the horse, also, esp. the linked mail or scale armor of some eastern nations.

Cataphract (n.) A horseman covered with a cataphract.

Cataphract (n.) The armor or plate covering some fishes.

Cataphracted (a.) Covered with a cataphract, or armor of plates, scales, etc.; or with that which corresponds to this, as horny or bony plates, hard, callous skin, etc.

Cataphractic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cataphract.

Cataphysical (a.) Unnatural; contrary to nature.

Cataplasm (n.) A soft and moist substance applied externally to some part of the body; a poultice.

Catapuce (n.) Spurge.

Catapult (n.) An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by the ancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.

Catapult (n.) A forked stick with elastic band for throwing small stones, etc.

Cataract (n.) A great fall of water over a precipice; a large waterfall.

Cataract (n.) An opacity of the crystalline lens, or of its capsule, which prevents the passage of the rays of light and impairs or destroys the sight.

Cataract (n.) A kind of hydraulic brake for regulating the action of pumping engines and other machines; -- sometimes called dashpot.

Cataractous (a.) Of the nature of a cataract in the eye; affected with cataract.

Catarrh (n.) An inflammatory affection of any mucous membrane, in which there are congestion, swelling, and an altertion in the quantity and quality of mucus secreted; as, catarrh of the stomach; catarrh of the bladder.

Catarrhal (a.) Pertaining to, produced by, or attending, catarrh; of the nature of catarrh.

Catarrhine (n.) One of the Catarrhina, a division of Quadrumana, including the Old World monkeys and apes which have the nostrils close together and turned downward. See Monkey.

Catarrhous (a.) Catarrhal.

Catastaltic (a.) Checking evacuations through astringent or styptic qualities.

Catastasis (n.) That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which the orator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.

Catastasis (n.) The state, or condition of anything; constitution; habit of body.

Catasterism (n.) A placing among the stars; a catalogue of stars.

Catastrophe (n.) An event producing a subversion of the order or system of things; a final event, usually of a calamitous or disastrous nature; hence, sudden calamity; great misfortune.

Catastrophe (n.) The final event in a romance or a dramatic piece; a denouement, as a death in a tragedy, or a marriage in a comedy.

Catastrophe (n.) A violent and widely extended change in the surface of the earth, as, an elevation or subsidence of some part of it, effected by internal causes.

Catastrophic (a.) Of a pertaining to a catastrophe.

Catastrophism (n.) The doctrine that the geological changes in the earth's crust have been caused by the sudden action of violent physical causes; -- opposed to the doctrine of uniformism.

Catastrophist (n.) One who holds the theory or catastrophism.

Catawba (n.) A well known light red variety of American grape.

Catawba (n.) A light-colored, sprightly American wine from the Catawba grape.

Catawbas (n. pl.) An Appalachian tribe of Indians which originally inhabited the regions near the Catawba river and the head waters of the Santee.

Catbird (n.) An American bird (Galeoscoptes Carolinensis), allied to the mocking bird, and like it capable of imitating the notes of other birds, but less perfectly. Its note resembles at times the mewing of a cat.

Catboat (n.) A small sailboat, with a single mast placed as far forward as possible, carring a sail extended by a gaff and long boom. See Illustration in Appendix.

Catcall (n.) A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument for making such a noise.

Caught (imp. & p. p.) of Catch

Catched () of Catch

Catching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catch

Catch (v. t.) To lay hold on; to seize, especially with the hand; to grasp (anything) in motion, with the effect of holding; as, to catch a ball.

Catch (v. t.) To seize after pursuing; to arrest; as, to catch a thief.

Catch (v. t.) To take captive, as in a snare or net, or on a hook; as, to catch a bird or fish.

Catch (v. t.) Hence: To insnare; to entangle.

Catch (v. t.) To seize with the senses or the mind; to apprehend; as, to catch a melody.

Catch (v. t.) To communicate to; to fasten upon; as, the fire caught the adjoining building.

Catch (v. t.) To engage and attach; to please; to charm.

Catch (v. t.) To get possession of; to attain.

Catch (v. t.) To take or receive; esp. to take by sympathy, contagion, infection, or exposure; as, to catch the spirit of an occasion; to catch the measles or smallpox; to catch cold; the house caught fire.

Catch (v. t.) To come upon unexpectedly or by surprise; to find; as, to catch one in the act of stealing.

Catch (v. t.) To reach in time; to come up with; as, to catch a train.

Catch (v. i.) To attain possession.

Catch (v. i.) To be held or impeded by entanglement or a light obstruction; as, a kite catches in a tree; a door catches so as not to open.

Catch (v. i.) To take hold; as, the bolt does not catch.

Catch (v. i.) To spread by, or as by, infecting; to communicate.

Catch (n.) Act of seizing; a grasp.

Catch (n.) That by which anything is caught or temporarily fastened; as, the catch of a gate.

Catch (n.) The posture of seizing; a state of preparation to lay hold of, or of watching he opportunity to seize; as, to lie on the catch.

Catch (n.) That which is caught or taken; profit; gain; especially, the whole quantity caught or taken at one time; as, a good catch of fish.

Catch (n.) Something desirable to be caught, esp. a husband or wife in matrimony.

Catch (n.) Passing opportunities seized; snatches.

Catch (n.) A slight remembrance; a trace.

Catch (n.) A humorous canon or round, so contrived that the singers catch up each other's words.

Catchable (a.) Capable of being caught.

Catch-basin (n.) A cistern or vault at the point where a street gutter discharges into a sewer, to catch bulky matters which would not pass readily through the sewer.

Catchdrain (n.) A ditch or drain along the side of a hill to catch the surface water; also, a ditch at the side of a canal to catch the surplus water.

Catcher (n.) One who, or that which, catches.

Catcher (n.) The player who stands behind the batsman to catch the ball.

Catchfly (n.) A plant with the joints of the stem, and sometimes other parts, covered with a viscid secretion to which small insects adhere. The species of Silene are examples of the catchfly.

Catching (a.) Infectious; contagious.

Catching (a.) Captivating; alluring.

Catching (n.) The act of seizing or taking hold of.

Catch-meadow (n.) A meadow irrigated by water from a spring or rivulet on the side of hill.

Catchment (n.) A surface of ground on which water may be caught and collected into a reservoir.

Catchpenny (a.) Made or contrived for getting small sums of money from the ignorant or unwary; as, a catchpenny book; a catchpenny show.

Catchpenny (n.) Some worthless catchpenny thing.

Catchpoll (n.) A bailiff's assistant.

Catchup (n.) Alt. of Catsup

Catsup (n.) A table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc.

Catchwater (n.) A ditch or drain for catching water. See Catchdrain.

Catchweed (n.) See Cleavers.

Catchweight (adv.) Without any additional weight; without being handicapped; as, to ride catchweight.

Catchword (n.) Among theatrical performers, the last word of the preceding speaker, which reminds one that he is to speak next; cue.

Catchword (n.) The first word of any page of a book after the first, inserted at the right hand bottom corner of the preceding page for the assistance of the reader. It is seldom used in modern printing.

Catchword (n.) A word or phrase caught up and repeated for effect; as, the catchword of a political party, etc.

Catchwork (n.) A work or artificial water-course for throwing water on lands that lie on the slopes of hills; a catchdrain.

Cate (n.) Food. [Obs.] See Cates.

Catechetic (a.) Alt. of Catechetical

Catechetical (a.) Relating to or consisting in, asking questions and receiving answers, according to the ancient manner of teaching.

Catechetically (adv.) In a catechetical manner; by question and answer.

Catechetics (n.) The science or practice of instructing by questions and answers.

Catechin (n.) One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white, crystalline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin.

Catechisation (n.) The act of catechising.

Catechised (imp. & p. p.) of Catechise

Catechising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catechise

Catechise (v. t.) To instruct by asking questions, receiving answers, and offering explanations and corrections, -- esp. in regard to points of religious faith.

Catechise (v. t.) To question or interrogate; to examine or try by questions; -- sometimes with a view to reproof, by eliciting from a person answers which condemn his own conduct.

Catechiser (n.) One who catechises.

Catechism (n.) A form of instruction by means of questions and answers.

Catechism (n.) A book containing a summary of principles, especially of religious doctrine, reduced to the form of questions and answers.

Catechismal (a.) Of or pertaining to a catechism, having the form of questions and answers; catechetical.

Catechist (n.) One who instructs by question and answer, especially in religions matters.

Catechistic (a.) Alt. of Catechistical

Catechistical (a.) Of or pertaining to a catechist or to a catechism.

Catechize (v. t.) See Catechise.

Catechu (n.) A dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction and evaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growing in India. It contains a large portion of tannin or tannic acid, and is used in medicine and in the arts. It is also known by the names terra japonica, cutch, gambier, etc.

Catechuic (a.) Of or pertaining to catechu or its derivatives. See catechin.

Catechumen (L. catechunenus, Gr. / instructed, from /. See) One who is receiving rudimentary instruction in the doctrines of Christianity; a neophyte; in the primitive church, one officially recognized as a Christian, and admitted to instruction preliminary to admission to full membership in the church.

Catechumenate (n.) The state or condition of a catechumen or the time during which one is a catechumen.

Catechumenical (a.) Of or pertaining to catechumens; as, catechumenical instructions.

Catechumenist (n.) A catechumen.

Categorematic (a.) Capable of being employed by itself as a term; -- said of a word.

Categorical (a.) Of or pertaining to a category.

Categorical (a.) Not hypothetical or relative; admitting no conditions or exceptions; declarative; absolute; positive; express; as, a categorical proposition, or answer.

Categorically (adv.) Absolutely; directly; expressly; positively; as, to affirm categorically.

Categoricalness (n.) The quality of being categorical, positive, or absolute.

Categorist (n.) One who inserts in a category or list; one who classifies.

Categorize (v. t.) To insert in a category or list; to class; to catalogue.

Categories (pl. ) of Category

Category (n.) One of the highest classes to which the objects of knowledge or thought can be reduced, and by which they can be arranged in a system; an ultimate or undecomposable conception; a predicament.

Category (n.) Class; also, state, condition, or predicament; as, we are both in the same category.

Catel (n.) Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, or income.

Catelectrode (n.) The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery.

Catelectrotonic (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, catelectrotonus.

Catelectrotonus (n.) The condition of increased irritability of a nerve in the region of the cathode or negative electrode, on the passage of a current of electricity through it.

Catene (pl. ) of Catena

Catena (n.) A chain or series of things connected with each other.

Catenary (a.) Alt. of Catenarian

Catenarian (a.) Relating to a chain; like a chain; as, a catenary curve.

Catenary (n.) The curve formed by a rope or chain of uniform density and perfect flexibility, hanging freely between two points of suspension, not in the same vertical line.

Catenated (imp. & p. p.) of Catenate

Catenating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catenate

Catenate (v. t.) To connect, in a series of links or ties; to chain.

Catenation (n.) Connection of links or union of parts, as in a chain; a regular or connected series. See Concatenation.

Catenulate (a.) Consisting of little links or chains.

Catenulate (a.) Chainlike; -- said both or color marks and of indentations when arranged like the links of a chain, as on shells, etc.

Cater (n.) A provider; a purveyor; a caterer.

Catered (imp. & p. p.) of Cater

Catering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cater

Cater (n.) To provide food; to buy, procure, or prepare provisions.

Cater (n.) By extension: To supply what is needed or desired, at theatrical or musical entertainments; -- followed by for or to.

Cater (n.) The four of cards or dice.

Cater (v. t.) To cut diagonally.

Cateran (n.) A Highland robber: a kind of irregular soldier.

Cater-cornered (a.) Diagonal.

Cater-cousin (n.) A remote relation. See Quater-cousin.

Caterer (n.) One who caters.

Cateress (n.) A woman who caters.

Caterpillar (n.) The larval state of a butterfly or any lepidopterous insect; sometimes, but less commonly, the larval state of other insects, as the sawflies, which are also called false caterpillars. The true caterpillars have three pairs of true legs, and several pairs of abdominal fleshy legs (prolegs) armed with hooks. Some are hairy, others naked. They usually feed on leaves, fruit, and succulent vegetables, being often very destructive, Many of them are popularly called worms, as the cutworm, cankerworm, army worm, cotton worm, silkworm.

Caterpillar (n.) A plant of the genus Scorpiurus, with pods resembling caterpillars.

Caterwauled (imp. & p. p.) of Caterwaul

Caterwauling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caterwaul

Caterwaul (v. i.) To cry as cats in rutting time; to make a harsh, offensive noise.

Caterwaul (n.) A caterwauling.

Caterwauling (n.) The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like the cry of cats.

Catery (n.) The place where provisions are deposited.

Cates (n.) Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food; delicacies; dainties.

Cat-eyed (a.) Having eyes like a cat; hence, able to see in the dark.

Catfall (n.) A rope used in hoisting the anchor to the cathead.

Catfish (n.) A name given in the United States to various species of siluroid fishes; as, the yellow cat (Amiurus natalis); the bind cat (Gronias nigrilabrus); the mud cat (Pilodictic oilwaris), the stone cat (Noturus flavus); the sea cat (Arius felis), etc. This name is also sometimes applied to the wolf fish. See Bullhrad.

Catgut (n.) A cord of great toughness made from the intestines of animals, esp. of sheep, used for strings of musical instruments, etc.

Catgut (n.) A sort of linen or canvas, with wide interstices.

Catharine wheel () See catherine wheel.

Catharist (n.) One aiming at or pretending to a greater purity of like than others about him; -- applied to persons of various sects. See Albigenses.

Cat-harpin (n.) See Cat-harping.

Cat-harping (n.) One of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in the shrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards.

Catharsis (n.) A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of the mouth, bowels, etc.

Cathartic (a.) Alt. of Catharical

Catharical (a.) Cleansing the bowels; promoting evacuations by stool; purgative.

Catharical (a.) Of or pertaining to the purgative principle of senna, as cathartic acid.

Cathartic (n.) A medicine that promotes alvine discharges; a purge; a purgative of moderate activity.

Cathartin (n.) The bitter, purgative principle of senna. It is a glucoside with the properties of a weak acid; -- called also cathartic acid, and cathartina.

Cathay (n.) China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have been introduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar name for North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.)

Cathead (n.) A projecting piece of timber or iron near the bow of vessel, to which the anchor is hoisted and secured.

Cathedra (n.) The official chair or throne of a bishop, or of any person in high authority.

Cathedral (n.) The principal church in a diocese, so called because in it the bishop has his official chair (Cathedra) or throne.

Cathedral (a.) Pertaining to the head church of a diocese; as, a cathedral church; cathedral service.

Cathedral (a.) Emanating from the chair of office, as of a pope or bishop; official; authoritative.

Cathedral (a.) Resembling the aisles of a cathedral; as, cathedral walks.

Cathedralic (a.) Cathedral.

Cathedrated (a.) Relating to the chair or office of a teacher.

Catheretic (n.) A mild kind caustic used to reduce warts and other excrescences.

Catherine wheel () Same as Rose window and Wheel window. Called also Catherine-wheel window.

Catherine wheel () A revolving piece of fireworks resembling in form the window of the same name.

Catheter (n.) The name of various instruments for passing along mucous canals, esp. applied to a tubular instrument to be introduced into the bladder through the urethra to draw off the urine.

Catheterism (n.) Alt. of Catheterization

Catheterization (n.) The operation of introducing a catheter.

Catheterized (imp. & p. p.) of Catheterize

Catheterizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catheterize

Catheterize (v. t.) To operate on with a catheter.

Cathetometer (n.) An instrument for the accurate measurement of small differences of height; esp. of the differences in the height of the upper surfaces of two columns of mercury or other fluid, or of the same column at different times. It consists of a telescopic leveling apparatus (d), which slides up or down a perpendicular metallic standard very finely graduated (bb). The telescope is raised or depressed in order to sight the objects or surfaces, and the differences in vertical height are thus shown on the graduated standard.

Catheti (pl. ) of Cathetus

Cathetus (n.) One line or radius falling perpendicularly on another; as, the catheti of a right-angled triangle, that is, the two sides that include the right angle.

Cathode (n.) The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric current leaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at which the electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negative pole; -- opposed to anode.

Cathodic (a.) A term applied to the centrifugal, or efferent, course of the nervous influence.

Cat-hole (n.) One of two small holes astern, above the gunroom ports, through which hawsers may be passed.

Catholic (a.) Universal or general; as, the catholic faith.

Catholic (a.) Not narrow-minded, partial, or bigoted; liberal; as, catholic tastes.

Catholic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or affecting the Roman Catholics; as, the Catholic emancipation act.

Catholic (n.) A person who accepts the creeds which are received in common by all parts of the orthodox Christian church.

Catholic (n.) An adherent of the Roman Catholic church; a Roman Catholic.

Catholical (a.) Catholic.

Catholicism (n.) The state or quality of being catholic or universal; catholicity.

Catholicism (n.) Liberality of sentiment; breadth of view.

Catholicism (n.) The faith of the whole orthodox Christian church, or adherence thereto.

Catholicism (n.) The doctrines or faith of the Roman Catholic church, or adherence thereto.

Catholicity (n.) The state or quality of being catholic; universality.

Catholicity (n.) Liberality of sentiments; catholicism.

Catholicity (n.) Adherence or conformity to the system of doctrine held by all parts of the orthodox Christian church; the doctrine so held; orthodoxy.

Catholicity (n.) Adherence to the doctrines of the church of Rome, or the doctrines themselves.

Catholicize (v. t. & i.) To make or to become catholic or Roman Catholic.

Catholicly (adv.) In a catholic manner; generally; universally.

Catholicness (n.) The quality of being catholic; universality; catholicity.

Catholicon (n.) A remedy for all diseases; a panacea.

Catholicos (n.) The spiritual head of the Armenian church, who resides at Etchmiadzin, Russia, and has ecclesiastical jurisdiction over, and consecrates the holy oil for, the Armenians of Russia, Turkey, and Persia, including the Patriarchs of Constantinople, Jerusalem, and Sis.

Catilinarian (a.) Pertaining to Catiline, the Roman conspirator; resembling Catiline's conspiracy.

Cation (n.) An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decomposition is evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion.

Catkin (n.) An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slender axis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in the willow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers) in the chestnut, oak, hickory, etc. -- so called from its resemblance to a cat's tail. See Illust. of Ament.

Catlike (a.) Like a cat; stealthily; noiselessly.

Catling (n.) A little cat; a kitten.

Catling (n.) Catgut; a catgut string.

Catling (n.) A double-edged, sharp-pointed dismembering knife.

Catlinite (n.) A red clay from the Upper Missouri region, used by the Indians for their pipes.

Catnip (n.) Alt. of Catmint

Catmint (n.) A well-know plant of the genus Nepeta (N. Cataria), somewhat like mint, having a string scent, and sometimes used in medicine. It is so called because cats have a peculiar fondness for it.

Cato-cathartic (n.) A remedy that purges by alvine discharges.

Catonian (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the stern old Roman, Cato the Censor; severe; inflexible.

Cat o' nine tails () See under Cat.

Catopter (n.) Alt. of Catoptron

Catoptron (n.) A reflecting optical glass or instrument; a mirror.

Catoptric (a.) Alt. of Catoptrical

Catoptrical (a.) Of or pertaining to catoptrics; produced by reflection.

Catoptrics (n.) That part of optics which explains the properties and phenomena of reflected light, and particularly that which is reflected from mirrors or polished bodies; -- formerly called anacamptics.

Catoptromancy (n.) A species of divination, which was performed by letting down a mirror into water, for a sick person to look at his face in it. If his countenance appeared distorted and ghastly, it was an ill omen; if fresh and healthy, it was favorable.

Catopron (n.) See Catopter.

Catpipe (n.) See Catcall.

Cat-rigged (a.) Rigged like a catboat.

Cat-salt (n.) A sort of salt, finely granulated, formed out of the bittern or leach brine.

Cat's-eye (n.) A variety of quartz or chalcedony, exhibiting opalescent reflections from within, like the eye of a cat. The name is given to other gems affording like effects, esp. the chrysoberyl.

Cat's-foot (n.) A plant (Nepeta Glechoma) of the same genus with catnip; ground ivy.

Cat-silver (n.) Mica.

Catskill period () The closing subdivision of the Devonian age in America. The rocks of this period are well developed in the Catskill mountains, and extend south and west under the Carboniferous formation. See the Diagram under Geology.

Catsos (pl. ) of Catso

Catso (n.) A base fellow; a rogue; a cheat.

Cat's-paw (n.) A light transitory air which ruffles the surface of the water during a calm, or the ripples made by such a puff of air.

Cat's-paw (n.) A particular hitch or turn in the bight of a rope, into which a tackle may be hooked.

Cat's-paw (n.) A dupe; a tool; one who, or that which, is used by another as an instrument to a accomplish his purposes.

Cat's-tail (n.) See Timothy, Cat-tail, Cirrus.

Catstick (n.) A stick or club employed in the game of ball called cat or tipcat.

Catstitch (v. t.) To fold and sew down the edge of with a coarse zigzag stitch.

Catsup (n.) Same as Catchup, and Ketchup.

Cat-tail (n.) A tall rush or flag (Typha latifolia) growing in marshes, with long, flat leaves, and having its flowers in a close cylindrical spike at the top of the stem. The leaves are frequently used for seating chairs, making mats, etc. See Catkin.

Cattish (a.) Catlike; feline

Cattle (n. pl.) Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including all domestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, and swine.

Catty (n.) An East Indian Weight of 1 1/3 pounds.

Caucasian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Caucasus, a mountainous region between the Black and Caspian seas.

Caucasian (a.) Of or pertaining to the white races of mankind, of whom the people about Mount Caucasus were formerly taken as the type.

Caucasian (n.) A native or inhabitant of the Caucasus, esp. a Circassian or Georgian.

Caucasian (n.) A member of any of the white races of mankind.

Caucus (n.) A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of persons belonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or to select delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regarding measures of party policy; a political primary meeting.

Caucused (imp. & p. p.) of Caucus

Caucusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caucus

Caucus (v. i.) To hold, or meet in, a caucus or caucuses.

Caudad (adv.) Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part.

Cauda galli () A plume-shaped fossil, supposed to be a seaweed, characteristic of the lower Devonian rocks; as, the cauda galli grit.

Caudal (a.) Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-like appendage.

Caudata (n. pl.) See Urodela.

Caudate (a.) Alt. of Caudated

Caudated (a.) Having a tail; having a termination like a tail.

Caudices (pl. ) of Caudex

Caudexes (pl. ) of Caudex

Caudex (n.) The stem of a tree., esp. a stem without a branch, as of a palm or a tree fern; also, the perennial rootstock of an herbaceous plant.

Caudicle (n.) Alt. of Caudicula

Caudicula (n.) A slender, elastic process, to which the masses of pollen in orchidaceous plants are attached.

Caudle (n.) A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of wine with eggs, bread, sugar, and spices.

Caudled (imp. & p. p.) of Caudle

Caudling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caudle

Caudle (v. t.) To make into caudle.

Caudle (v. t.) Too serve as a caudle to; to refresh.

Cauf (n.) A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water.

Caufle (n.) A gang of slaves. Same as Coffle.

Caught () imp. & p. p. of Catch.

Cauk (n.) Alt. of Cauker

Cauker (n.) See Cawk, Calker.

Caul (n.) A covering of network for the head, worn by women; also, a net.

Caul (n.) The fold of membrane loaded with fat, which covers more or less of the intestines in mammals; the great omentum. See Omentum.

Caul (n.) A part of the amnion, one of the membranes enveloping the fetus, which sometimes is round the head of a child at its birth.

Caulescent (a.) Having a leafy stem.

Caulicle (n.) A short caulis or stem, esp. the rudimentary stem seen in the embryo of seed; -- otherwise called a radicle.

Cauliculi (pl. ) of Cauliculus

Cauliculus (n.) In the Corinthian capital, one of the eight stalks rising out of the lower leafage and terminating in leaves which seem to support the volutes. See Illust. of Corinthian order, under Corinthian.

Cauliflower (n.) An annual variety of Brassica oleracea, or cabbage, of which the cluster of young flower stalks and buds is eaten as a vegetable.

Cauliflower (n.) The edible head or curd of a cauliflower plant.

Cauliform (a.) Having the form of a caulis.

Cauline (a.) Growing immediately on a caulis; of or pertaining to a caulis.

Caules (pl. ) of Caulis

Caulis (n.) An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bear flowers.

Caulk (v. t. & n.) See Calk.

Caulocarpous (a.) Having stems which bear flowers and fruit year after year, as most trees and shrubs.

Cauma (n.) Great heat, as of the body in fever.

Cauponize (v. i.) To sell wine or victuals.

Causable (a.) Capable of being caused.

Causal (a.) Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative.

Causal (n.) A causal word or form of speech.

Causality (n.) The agency of a cause; the action or power of a cause, in producing its effect.

Causality (n.) The faculty of tracing effects to their causes.

Causally (adv.) According to the order or series of causes; by tracing effects to causes.

Causally (n.) The lighter, earthy parts of ore, carried off washing.

Causation (n.) The act of causing; also the act or agency by which an effect is produced.

Causationist (n.) One who believes in the law of universal causation.

Causative (a.) Effective, as a cause or agent; causing.

Causative (a.) Expressing a cause or reason; causal; as, the ablative is a causative case.

Causative (n.) A word which expresses or suggests a cause.

Causatively (adv.) In a causative manner.

Causator (n.) One who causes.

Cause (v.) That which produces or effects a result; that from which anything proceeds, and without which it would not exist.

Cause (v.) That which is the occasion of an action or state; ground; reason; motive; as, cause for rejoicing.

Cause (v.) Sake; interest; advantage.

Cause (v.) A suit or action in court; any legal process by which a party endeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right; case; ground of action.

Cause (v.) Any subject of discussion or debate; matter; question; affair in general.

Cause (v.) The side of a question, which is espoused, advocated, and upheld by a person or party; a principle which is advocated; that which a person or party seeks to attain.

Caused (imp. & p. p.) of Cause

Causing (p. pr. & v. n.) of Cause

Cause (n.) To effect as an agent; to produce; to be the occasion of; to bring about; to bring into existence; to make; -- usually followed by an infinitive, sometimes by that with a finite verb.

Cause (v. i.) To assign or show cause; to give a reason; to make excuse.

Cause (conj.) Abbreviation of Because.

Causeful (n.) Having a cause.

Causeless (a.) 1. Self-originating; uncreated.

Causeless (a.) Without just or sufficient reason; groundless.

Causeless (adv.) Without cause or reason.

Causelessness (n.) The state of being causeless.

Causer (n.) One who or that which causes.

Causeuse (n.) A kind of sofa for two persons. A tete-/-tete.

Causeway (n.) Alt. of Causey

Causey (n.) A way or road raised above the natural level of the ground, serving as a dry passage over wet or marshy ground.

Causewayed (a.) Alt. of Causeyed

Causeyed (a.) Having a raised way (causeway or causey); paved.

Causidical (a.) Pertaining to an advocate, or to the maintenance and defense of suits.

Caustic (a.) Alt. of Caustical

Caustical (a.) Capable of destroying the texture of anything or eating away its substance by chemical action; burning; corrosive; searing.

Caustical (a.) Severe; satirical; sharp; as, a caustic remark.

Caustic (a.) Any substance or means which, applied to animal or other organic tissue, burns, corrodes, or destroys it by chemical action; an escharotic.

Caustic (a.) A caustic curve or caustic surface.

Caustically (adv.) In a caustic manner.

Causticily (n.) The quality of being caustic; corrosiveness; as, the causticity of potash.

Causticily (n.) Severity of language; sarcasm; as, the causticity of a reply or remark.

Causticness (n.) The quality of being caustic; causticity.

Cautel (n.) Caution; prudence; wariness.

Cautel (n.) Craft; deceit; falseness.

Cautelous (a.) Caution; prudent; wary.

Cautelous (a.) Crafty; deceitful; false.

Cauter (n.) A hot iron for searing or cauterizing.

Cauterant (n.) A cauterizing substance.

Cauterism (n.) The use or application of a caustic; cautery.

Cauterization (n.) The act of searing some morbid part by the application of a cautery or caustic; also, the effect of such application.

Cauterized (imp. & p. p.) of Cauterize

Cauterizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cauterize

Cauterize (v. t.) To burn or sear with a cautery or caustic.

Cauterize (v. t.) To sear, as the conscience.

Cauteries (pl. ) of Cautery

Cautery (n.) A burning or searing, as of morbid flesh, with a hot iron, or by application of a caustic that will burn, corrode, or destroy animal tissue.

Cautery (n.) The iron of other agent in cauterizing.

Caution (n.) A careful attention to the probable effects of an act, in order that failure or harm may be avoided; prudence in regard to danger; provident care; wariness.

Caution (n.) Security; guaranty; bail.

Caution (n.) Precept or warning against evil of any kind; exhortation to wariness; advice; injunction.

Cautioned (imp. & p. p.) of Caution

Cautioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caution

Caution (v. t.) To give notice of danger to; to warn; to exhort [one] to take heed.

Cautionary (a.) Conveying a caution, or warning to avoid danger; as, cautionary signals.

Cautionary (a.) Given as a pledge or as security.

Cautionary (a.) Wary; cautious.

Cautioner (n.) One who cautions or advises.

Cautioner (n.) A surety or sponsor.

Cautionry (n.) Suretyship.

Cautious (a.) Attentive to examine probable effects and consequences of acts with a view to avoid danger or misfortune; prudent; circumspect; wary; watchful; as, a cautious general.

Cautiously (adv.) In a cautious manner.

Cautiousness (n.) The quality of being cautious.

Cavalcade (n.) A procession of persons on horseback; a formal, pompous march of horsemen by way of parade.

Cavalero (n.) Alt. of Cavaliero

Cavaliero (n.) A cavalier; a gallant; a libertine.

Cavalier (n.) A military man serving on horseback; a knight.

Cavalier (n.) A gay, sprightly, military man; hence, a gallant.

Cavalier (n.) One of the court party in the time of king Charles I. as contrasted with a Roundhead or an adherent of Parliament.

Cavalier (n.) A work of more than ordinary height, rising from the level ground of a bastion, etc., and overlooking surrounding parts.

Cavalier (a.) Gay; easy; offhand; frank.

Cavalier (a.) High-spirited.

Cavalier (a.) Supercilious; haughty; disdainful; curt; brusque.

Cavalier (a.) Of or pertaining to the party of King Charles I.

Cavalierish (a.) Somewhat like a cavalier.

Cavalierism (n.) The practice or principles of cavaliers.

Cavalierly (adv.) In a supercilious, disdainful, or haughty manner; arrogantly.

Cavalierness (n.) A disdainful manner.

Cavally (n.) A carangoid fish of the Atlantic coast (Caranx hippos): -- called also horse crevalle. [See Illust. under Carangoid.]

Cavalry (n.) That part of military force which serves on horseback.

Cavalryman (n.) One of a body of cavalry.

Cavatina (n.) Originally, a melody of simpler form than the aria; a song without a second part and a da capo; -- a term now variously and vaguely used.

Cave (n.) A hollow place in the earth, either natural or artificial; a subterraneous cavity; a cavern; a den.

Cave (n.) Any hollow place, or part; a cavity.

Caved (imp. & p. p.) of Cave

Caving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cave

Cave (n.) To make hollow; to scoop out.

Cave (v. i.) To dwell in a cave.

Cave (v. i.) To fall in or down; as, the sand bank caved. Hence (Slang), to retreat from a position; to give way; to yield in a disputed matter.

Caveat (n.) A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to do a certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as, a caveat entered in a probate court to stop the proving of a will or the taking out of letters of administration, etc.

Caveat (n.) A description of some invention, designed to be patented, lodged in the patent office before the patent right is applied for, and operating as a bar to the issue of letters patent to any other person, respecting the same invention.

Caveat (n.) Intimation of caution; warning; protest.

Caveating (n.) Shifting the sword from one side of an adversary's sword to the other.

Caveator (n.) One who enters a caveat.

Cavendish (n.) Leaf tobacco softened, sweetened, and pressed into plugs or cakes.

Cavern (n.) A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave.

Caverned (a.) Containing caverns.

Caverned (a.) Living in a cavern.

Cavernous (a.) Full of caverns; resembling a cavern or large cavity; hollow.

Cavernous (a.) Filled with small cavities or cells.

Cavernous (a.) Having a sound caused by a cavity.

Cavernulous (a.) Full of little cavities; as, cavernulous metal.

Cavesson (n.) Alt. of Cavezon

Cavezon (n.) A kind of noseband used in breaking and training horses.

Cavetto (n.) A concave molding; -- used chiefly in classical architecture. See Illust. of Column.

Caviare (n.) Alt. of Caviar

Caviar (n.) The roes of the sturgeon, prepared and salted; -- used as a relish, esp. in Russia.

Cavicorn (a.) Having hollow horns.

Cavicornia (n. pl.) A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on a bony process of the front, as the ox.

Caviled (imp. & p. p.) of Cavil

Cavilled () of Cavil

Caviling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cavil

Cavilling () of Cavil

Cavil (v. i.) To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find fault without good reason.

Cavil (v. t.) To cavil at.

Cavil (n.) A captious or frivolous objection.

Caviler (n.) Alt. of Caviller

Caviller (n.) One who cavils.

Caviling (a.) Disposed to cavil; finding fault without good reason. See Captious.

Cavilingly (adv.) In a caviling manner.

Cavillation (n.) Frivolous or sophistical objection.

Cavilous (a.) Alt. of Cavillous

Cavillous (a.) Characterized by caviling, or disposed to cavil; quibbing.

Cavin (n.) A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate their aproach to a place.

Cavitary (a.) Containing a body cavity; as, the cavitary or nematoid worms.

Cavities (pl. ) of Cavity

Cavity (n.) Hollowness.

Cavity (n.) A hollow place; a hollow; as, the abdominal cavity.

Cavo-relievo (n.) Cavo-rilievo.

Cavo-rilievo (n.) Hollow relief; sculpture in relief within a sinking made for the purpose, so no part of it projects beyond the plain surface around.

Cavorted (imp. & p. p.) of Cavort

Cavorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cavort

Cavort (v. i.) To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider.

Cavies (pl. ) of Cavy

Cavy (n.) A rodent of the genera Cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig (Cavia cobaya). Cavies are natives of South America.

Cawed (imp. & p. p.) of Caw

Cawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caw

Caw (v. i.) To cry like a crow, rook, or raven.

Caw (n.) The cry made by the crow, rook, or raven.

Cawk (n.) An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar.

Cawker (n.) See Calker.

Cawky (a.) Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk.

Caxon (n.) A kind of wig.

Caxton (n.) Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer.

Cay (n.) See Key, a ledge.

Cayenne (n.) Cayenne pepper.

Cayman (n.) The south America alligator. See Alligator.

Cayugas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting western New-York, forming part of the confederacy called the Five Nations.

Cayuse (n.) An Indian pony.

Cazique (n.) Alt. of Cazic

Cazic (n.) A chief or petty king among some tribes of Indians in America.

Ceased (imp. & p. p.) of Cease

Ceasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cease

Cease (v. i.) To come to an end; to stop; to leave off or give over; to desist; as, the noise ceased.

Cease (v. i.) To be wanting; to fail; to pass away.

Cease (v. t.) To put a stop to; to bring to an end.

Cease (n.) Extinction.

Ceaseless (a.) Without pause or end; incessant.

Ceaseless (adv.) Without intermission or end.

Cecidomyia (n.) A genus of small dipterous files, including several very injurious species, as the Hessian fly. See Hessian fly.

Cecity (n.) Blindness.

Cecutiency (n.) Partial blindness, or a tendency to blindness.

Cedar (n.) The name of several evergreen trees. The wood is remarkable for its durability and fragrant odor.

Cedar (a.) Of or pertaining to cedar.

Cedared (a.) Covered, or furnished with, cedars.

Cedarn (a.) Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood.

Ceded (imp. & p. p.) of Cede

Ceding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cede

Cede (v. t.) To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede a fortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty.

Cedilla (n.) A mark placed under the letter c [thus, c], to show that it is to be sounded like s, as in facade.

Cedrat (n.) Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with large fruits, not acid, and having a high perfume.

Cedrene (n.) A rich aromatic oil, C15H24, extracted from oil of red cedar, and regarded as a polymeric terpene; also any one of a class of similar substances, as the essential oils of cloves, cubebs, juniper, etc., of which cedrene proper is the type.

Cedrine (a.) Of or pertaining to cedar or the cedar tree.

Cedriret (n.) Same as Coerulignone.

Cedry (a.) Of the nature of cedar.

Cedule (n.) A scroll; a writing; a schedule.

Ceduous (a.) Fit to be felled.

Ceiled (imp. & p. p.) of Ceil

Ceiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ceil

Ceil (v. t.) To overlay or cover the inner side of the roof of; to furnish with a ceiling; as, to ceil a room.

Ceil (v. t.) To line or finish a surface, as of a wall, with plaster, stucco, thin boards, or the like.

Ceiling (v. t.) The inside lining of a room overhead; the under side of the floor above; the upper surface opposite to the floor.

Ceiling (v. t.) The lining or finishing of any wall or other surface, with plaster, thin boards, etc.; also, the work when done.

Ceiling (v. t.) The inner planking of a vessel.

Ceint (n.) A girdle.

Celadon (n.) A pale sea-green color; also, porcelain or fine pottery of this tint.

Celandine (n.) A perennial herbaceous plant (Chelidonium majus) of the poppy family, with yellow flowers. It is used as a medicine in jaundice, etc., and its acrid saffron-colored juice is used to cure warts and the itch; -- called also greater celandine and swallowwort.

Celature (n.) The act or art of engraving or embossing.

Celature (n.) That which is engraved.

Celebrant (n.) One who performs a public religious rite; -- applied particularly to an officiating priest in the Roman Catholic Church, as distinguished from his assistants.

Celebrated (imp. & p. p.) of Celebrate

Celebrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Celebrate

Celebrate (v. t.) To extol or honor in a solemn manner; as, to celebrate the name of the Most High.

Celebrate (v. t.) To honor by solemn rites, by ceremonies of joy and respect, or by refraining from ordinary business; to observe duly; to keep; as, to celebrate a birthday.

Celebrate (v. t.) To perform or participate in, as a sacrament or solemn rite; to solemnize; to perform with appropriate rites; as, to celebrate a marriage.

Celebrated (a.) Having celebrity; distinguished; renowned.

Celebration (n.) The act, process, or time of celebrating.

Celebrator (n.) One who celebrates; a praiser.

Celebrious (a.) Famous.

Celebrities (pl. ) of Celebrity

Celebrity (n.) Celebration; solemnization.

Celebrity (n.) The state or condition of being celebrated; fame; renown; as, the celebrity of Washington.

Celebrity (n.) A person of distinction or renown; -- usually in the plural; as, he is one of the celebrities of the place.

Celeriac (n.) Turnip-rooted celery, a from of celery with a large globular root, which is used for food.

Celerity (n.) Rapidity of motion; quickness; swiftness.

Celery (n.) A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which the blanched leafstalks are used as a salad.

Celestial (a.) Belonging to the aerial regions, or visible heavens.

Celestial (a.) Of or pertaining to the spiritual heaven; heavenly; divine.

Celestial (n.) An inhabitant of heaven.

Celestial (n.) A native of China.

Celestialize (v. t.) To make celestial.

Celestially (adv.) In a celestial manner.

Celestify (v. t.) To make like heaven.

Celestine (n.) Alt. of Celestite

Celestite (n.) Native strontium sulphate, a mineral so named from its occasional delicate blue color. It occurs crystallized, also in compact massive and fibrous forms.

Celestine (n.) Alt. of Celestinian

Celestinian (n.) A monk of the austere branch of the Franciscan Order founded by Celestine V. in the 13th centry.

Celiac (a.) See Coellac.

Celibacy (n.) The state of being unmarried; single life, esp. that of a bachelor, or of one bound by vows not to marry.

Celibate (n.) Celibate state; celibacy.

Celibate (n.) One who is unmarried, esp. a bachelor, or one bound by vows not to marry.

Celibate (a.) Unmarried; single; as, a celibate state.

Celibatist (n.) One who lives unmarried.

Celidography (n.) A description of apparent spots on the disk of the sun, or on planets.

Cell (n.) A very small and close apartment, as in a prison or in a monastery or convent; the hut of a hermit.

Cell (n.) A small religious house attached to a monastery or convent.

Cell (n.) Any small cavity, or hollow place.

Cell (n.) The space between the ribs of a vaulted roof.

Cell (n.) Same as Cella.

Cell (n.) A jar of vessel, or a division of a compound vessel, for holding the exciting fluid of a battery.

Cell (n.) One of the minute elementary structures, of which the greater part of the various tissues and organs of animals and plants are composed.

Celled (imp. & p. p.) of Cell

Cell (v. t.) To place or inclose in a cell.

Cella (n.) The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, as distinguished from the open porticoes.

Cellar (n.) A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surface of the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept.

Cellarage (n.) The space or storerooms of a cellar; a cellar.

Cellarage (n.) Chare for storage in a cellar.

Cellarer (n.) A steward or butler of a monastery or chapter; one who has charge of procuring and keeping the provisions.

Cellaret (n.) A receptacle, as in a dining room, for a few bottles of wine or liquor, made in the form of a chest or coffer, or a deep drawer in a sideboard, and usually lined with metal.

Cellarist (n.) Same as Cellarer.

Celled (a.) Containing a cell or cells.

Cellepore (n.) A genus of delicate branching corals, made up of minute cells, belonging to the Bryozoa.

Celliferous (a.) Bearing or producing cells.

Cellos (pl. ) of Cello

Celli (pl. ) of Cello

Cello (n.) A contraction for Violoncello.

Cellular (a.) Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cell or cells.

Cellulated (a.) Cellular.

Cellule (n.) A small cell.

Celluliferous (a.) Bearing or producing little cells.

Cellulitis (n.) An inflammantion of the cellular or areolar tissue, esp. of that lying immediately beneath the skin.

Celluloid (n.) A substance composed essentially of gun cotton and camphor, and when pure resembling ivory in texture and color, but variously colored to imitate coral, tortoise shell, amber, malachite, etc. It is used in the manufacture of jewelry and many small articles, as combs, brushes, collars, and cuffs; -- originally called xylonite.

Cellulose (a.) Consisting of, or containing, cells.

Cellulose (n.) The substance which constitutes the essential part of the solid framework of plants, of ordinary wood, linen, paper, etc. It is also found to a slight extent in certain animals, as the tunicates. It is a carbohydrate, (C6H10O5)n, isomeric with starch, and is convertible into starches and sugars by the action of heat and acids. When pure, it is a white amorphous mass. See Starch, Granulose, Lignin.

Celotomy (n.) The act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure in strangulated hernia.

Celsiture (n.) Height; altitude.

Celsius (n.) The Celsius thermometer or scale, so called from Anders Celsius, a Swedish astronomer, who invented it. It is the same as the centigrade thermometer or scale.

Celt (n.) One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited a great part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants at the present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and the northern shores of France.

Celt (n.) A weapon or implement of stone or metal, found in the tumuli, or barrows, of the early Celtic nations.

Celtiberian (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Celtiberia (a district in Spain lying between the Ebro and the Tagus) or its inhabitants the Celtiberi (Celts of the river Iberus).

Celtiberian (n.) An inhabitant of Celtiberia.

Celtic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes, literature, tongue.

Celtic (n.) The language of the Celts.

Celticism (n.) A custom of the Celts, or an idiom of their language.

Celticize (v. t.) To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts.

Cembalo (n.) An old name for the harpsichord.

Cement (n.) Any substance used for making bodies adhere to each other, as mortar, glue, etc.

Cement (n.) A kind of calcined limestone, or a calcined mixture of clay and lime, for making mortar which will harden under water.

Cement (n.) The powder used in cementation. See Cementation, n., 2.

Cement (n.) Bond of union; that which unites firmly, as persons in friendship, or men in society.

Cement (n.) The layer of bone investing the root and neck of a tooth; -- called also cementum.

Cemented (imp. & p. p.) of Cement

Cementing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cement

Cement (n.) To unite or cause to adhere by means of a cement.

Cement (n.) To unite firmly or closely.

Cement (n.) To overlay or coat with cement; as, to cement a cellar bottom.

Cement (v. i.) To become cemented or firmly united; to cohere.

Cemental (a.) Of or pertaining to cement, as of a tooth; as, cemental tubes.

Cementation (n.) The act or process of cementing.

Cementation (n.) A process which consists in surrounding a solid body with the powder of other substances, and heating the whole to a degree not sufficient to cause fusion, the physical properties of the body being changed by chemical combination with powder; thus iron becomes steel by cementation with charcoal, and green glass becomes porcelain by cementation with sand.

Cementatory (a.) Having the quality of cementing or uniting firmly.

Cementer (n.) A person or thing that cements.

Cementitious (n.) Of the nature of cement.

Cemeterial (a.) Of or pertaining to a cemetery.

Cemeteries (pl. ) of Cemetery

Cemetery (n.) A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; a graveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.

Cenanthy (n.) The absence or suppression of the essential organs (stamens and pistil) in a flower.

Cenation (n.) Meal-taking; dining or supping.

Cenatory (a.) Of or pertaining to dinner or supper.

Cenobite (n.) One of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or a community, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives in solitude.

Cenobitic (a.) Alt. of Cenobitical

Cenobitical (a.) Of or pertaining to a cenobite.

Cenobitism (n.) The state of being a cenobite; the belief or practice of a cenobite.

Cenogamy (n.) The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexual intercourse among its members, as in certain societies practicing communism.

Cenotaph (n.) An empty tomb or a monument erected in honor of a person who is buried elsewhere.

Cenotaphy (n.) A cenotaph.

Cenozoic (a.) Belonging to the most recent division of geological time, including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Age of man. [Written also caenozoic, cainozoic, kainozoic.] See Geology.

Cense (n.) A census; -- also, a public rate or tax.

Cense (n.) Condition; rank.

Censed (imp. & p. p.) of Cense

Censing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cense

Cense (v. t.) To perfume with odors from burning gums and spices.

Cense (v. i.) To burn or scatter incense.

Censer (n.) A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.

Censor (n.) One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of inspector of morals and conduct.

Censor (n.) One who is empowered to examine manuscripts before they are committed to the press, and to forbid their publication if they contain anything obnoxious; -- an official in some European countries.

Censor (n.) One given to fault-finding; a censurer.

Censor (n.) A critic; a reviewer.

Censorial (a.) Belonging to a censor, or to the correction of public morals.

Censorial (a.) Full of censure; censorious.

Censorian (a.) Censorial.

Censorious (a.) Addicted to censure; apt to blame or condemn; severe in making remarks on others, or on their writings or manners.

Censorious (a.) Implying or expressing censure; as, censorious remarks.

Censorship (n.) The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship.

Censual (a.) Relating to, or containing, a census.

Censurable (a.) Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, a censurable person, or censurable conduct.

Censure (n.) Judgment either favorable or unfavorable; opinion.

Censure (n.) The act of blaming or finding fault with and condemning as wrong; reprehension; blame.

Censure (n.) Judicial or ecclesiastical sentence or reprimand; condemnatory judgment.

Censured (imp. & p. p.) of Censure

Censuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Censure

Censure (v. i.) To form or express a judgment in regard to; to estimate; to judge.

Censure (v. i.) To find fault with and condemn as wrong; to blame; to express disapprobation of.

Censure (v. i.) To condemn or reprimand by a judicial or ecclesiastical sentence.

Censure (v. i.) To judge.

Censurer (n.) One who censures.

Census (n.) A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five years.

Census (n.) An official registration of the number of the people, the value of their estates, and other general statistics of a country.

Cent (n.) A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a hundred.

Cent (n.) A United States coin, the hundredth part of a dollar, formerly made of copper, now of copper, tin, and zinc.

Cent (n.) An old game at cards, supposed to be like piquet; -- so called because 100 points won the game.

Centage (n.) Rate by the hundred; percentage.

Cental (n.) A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many parts of the United States a Hundredweight.

Cental (n.) Relating to a hundred.

Centare (n.) A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one square meter, or about 1/ square yards.

Centaur (n.) A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse.

Centaur (n.) A constellation in the southern heavens between Hydra and the Southern Cross.

Centaurea (n.) A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles and including the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and the star thistle (C. Calcitrapa).

Centaury (n.) A gentianaceous plant not fully identified. The name is usually given to the Erytheraea Centaurium and the Chlora perfoliata of Europe, but is also extended to the whole genus Sabbatia, and even to the unrelated Centaurea.

Centenarian (a.) Of or relating to a hundred years.

Centenarian (n.) A person a hundred years old.

Centenary (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, a hundred.

Centenary (a.) Occurring once in every hundred years; centennial.

Centenaries (pl. ) of Centenary

Centenary (n.) The aggregate of a hundred single things; specifically, a century.

Centenary (n.) A commemoration or celebration of an event which occurred a hundred years before.

Centennial (a.) Relating to, or associated with, the commemoration of an event that happened a hundred years before; as, a centennial ode.

Centennial (a.) Happening once in a hundred years; as, centennial jubilee; a centennial celebration.

Centennial (a.) Lasting or aged a hundred years.

Centennial (n.) The celebration of the hundredth anniversary of any event; a centenary.

Centennially (adv.) Once in a hundred years.

Center (n.) A point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle point or place.

Center (n.) The middle or central portion of anything.

Center (n.) A principal or important point of concentration; the nucleus around which things are gathered or to which they tend; an object of attention, action, or force; as, a center of attaction.

Center (n.) The earth.

Center (n.) Those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who support the existing government. They sit in the middle of the legislative chamber, opposite the presiding officer, between the conservatives or monarchists, who sit on the right of the speaker, and the radicals or advanced republicans who occupy the seats on his left, See Right, and Left.

Center (n.) A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault or arch are supported in position until the work becomes self-supporting.

Center (n.) One of the two conical steel pins, in a lathe, etc., upon which the work is held, and about which it revolves.

Center (n.) A conical recess, or indentation, in the end of a shaft or other work, to receive the point of a center, on which the work can turn, as in a lathe.

Centered (imp. & p. p.) of Centre

Centred () of Centre

Centering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Centre

Centring () of Centre

Center (v. i.) Alt. of Centre

Centre (v. i.) To be placed in a center; to be central.

Centre (v. i.) To be collected to a point; to be concentrated; to rest on, or gather about, as a center.

Center (v. t.) Alt. of Centre

Centre (v. t.) To place or fix in the center or on a central point.

Centre (v. t.) To collect to a point; to concentrate.

Centre (v. t.) To form a recess or indentation for the reception of a center.

Centerbit (n.) Alt. of Centrebit

Centrebit (n.) An instrument turning on a center, for boring holes. See Bit, n., 3.

Centerboard (n.) Alt. of Centreboard

Centreboard (n.) A movable or sliding keel formed of a broad board or slab of wood or metal which may be raised into a water-tight case amidships, when in shallow water, or may be lowered to increase the area of lateral resistance and prevent leeway when the vessel is beating to windward. It is used in vessels of all sizes along the coast of the United States

Centerfire cartridge () See under Cartridge.

Centering (n.) Same as Center, n., 6.

Centerpiece (n.) Alt. of Centrepiece

Centrepiece (n.) An ornament to be placed in the center, as of a table, ceiling, atc.; a central article or figure.

Centesimal (a.) Hundredth.

Centesimal (n.) A hundredth part.

Centesimation (n.) The infliction of the death penalty upon one person in every hundred, as in cases of mutiny.

Centesm (n.) Hundredth.

-mi (pl. ) of Centesimo

Centesimo (n.) A copper coin of Italy and Spain equivalent to a centime.

Centiare (n.) See centare.

Centicipitous (a.) Hundred-headed.

Centifidous (a.) Divided into a hundred parts.

Centifolious (a.) Having a hundred leaves.

Centigrade (a.) Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundred divisions or equal parts.

Centigrade (a.) Of or pertaining to the centigrade thermometer; as, 10 centigrade (or 10 C.).

Centigram (n.) Alt. of Centigramme

Centigramme (n.) The hundredth part of a gram; a weight equal to .15432 of a grain. See Gram.

Centiliter (n.) Alt. of Centilitre

Centilitre (n.) The hundredth part of a liter; a measure of volume or capacity equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of a cubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce.

Centiloquy (n.) A work divided into a hundred parts.

Centime (n.) The hundredth part of a franc; a small French copper coin and money of account.

Centimeter (n.) Alt. of Centimetre

Centimetre (n.) The hundredth part of a meter; a measure of length equal to rather more than thirty-nine hundredths (0.3937) of an inch. See Meter.

Centinel (n.) Sentinel.

Centinody (n.) A weed with a stem of many joints (Illecebrum verticillatum); also, the Polygonum aviculare or knotgrass.

Centiped (n.) A species of the Myriapoda; esp. the large, flattened, venomous kinds of the order Chilopoda, found in tropical climates. they are many-jointed, and have a great number of feet.

Centistere (n.) The hundredth part of a stere, equal to .353 cubic feet.

Centner (n.) A weight divisible first into a hundred parts, and then into smaller parts.

Centner (n.) The commercial hundredweight in several of the continental countries, varying in different places from 100 to about 112 pounds.

Centos (pl. ) of Cento

Cento (n.) A literary or a musical composition formed by selections from different authors disposed in a new order.

Centonism (n.) The composition of a cento; the act or practice of composing a cento or centos.

Central (a.) Relating to the center; situated in or near the center or middle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near the center; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points.

Central (n.) Alt. of Centrale

Centrale (n.) The central, or one of the central, bones of the carpus or or tarsus. In the tarsus of man it is represented by the navicular.

Centralism (n.) The state or condition of being central; the combination of several parts into one whole; centralization.

Centralism (n.) The system by which power is centralized, as in a government.

Centralities (pl. ) of Centrality

Centrality (n.) The state of being central; tendency towards a center.

Centralization (n.) The act or process of centralizing, or the state of being centralized; the act or process of combining or reducing several parts into a whole; as, the centralization of power in the general government; the centralization of commerce in a city.

Centralized (imp. & p. p.) of Centralize

Centralizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Centralize

Centralize (v. t.) To draw or bring to a center point; to gather into or about a center; to bring into one system, or under one control.

Centrally (adv.) In a central manner or situation.

Centre (n. & v.) See Center.

Centric (a.) Alt. of Centrical

Centrical (a.) Placed in the center or middle; central.

Centricity (n.) The state or quality of being centric; centricalness.

Centrifugal (a.) Tending, or causing, to recede from the center.

Centrifugal (a.) Expanding first at the summit, and later at the base, as a flower cluster.

Centrifugal (a.) Having the radicle turned toward the sides of the fruit, as some embryos.

Centrifugal (n.) A centrifugal machine.

Centrifugence (n.) The property or quality of being centrifugal.

Centring (n.) See Centring.

Centripetal (a.) Tending, or causing, to approach the center.

Centripetal (a.) Expanding first at the base of the inflorescence, and proceeding in order towards the summit.

Centripetal (a.) Having the radicle turned toward the axis of the fruit, as some embryos.

Centripetal (a.) Progressing by changes from the exterior of a thing toward its center; as, the centripetal calcification of a bone.

Centripetence (n.) Centripetency.

Centripetency (n.) Tendency toward the center.

Centriscoid (a.) Allied to, or resembling, the genus Centriscus, of which the bellows fish is an example.

Centrobaric (a.) Relating to the center of gravity, or to the process of finding it.

Centrode (n.) In two figures having relative motion, one of the two curves which are the loci of the instantaneous center.

Centroid (n.) The center of mass, inertia, or gravity of a body or system of bodies.

Centrolecithal (a.) Having the food yolk placed at the center of the ovum, segmentation being either regular or unequal.

Centrolinead (n.) An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or lines converging to a center.

Centrolineal (a.) Converging to a center; -- applied to lines drawn so as to meet in a point or center.

Centrosome (n.) A peculiar rounded body lying near the nucleus of a cell. It is regarded as the dynamic element by means of which the machinery of cell division is organized.

Centrostaltic (a.) A term applied to the action of nerve force in the spinal center.

Centrums (pl. ) of Centrum

Centra (pl. ) of Centrum

Centrum (n.) The body, or axis, of a vertebra. See Vertebra.

Centry (n.) See Sentry.

Centumviri (pl. ) of Centumvir

Centumvir (n.) One of a court of about one hundred judges chosen to try civil suits. Under the empire the court was increased to 180, and met usually in four sections.

Centumviral (a.) Of or pertaining to the centumviri, or to a centumvir.

Centumvirate (n.) The office of a centumvir, or of the centumviri.

Centuple (a.) Hundredfold.

Centuple (v. t.) To increase a hundredfold.

Centuplicated (imp. & p. p.) of Centuplicate

Centuplicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Centuplicate

Centuplicate (a.) To make a hundredfold; to repeat a hundred times.

Centurial (a.) Of or pertaining to a century; as, a centurial sermon.

Centuriate (a.) Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds.

Centuriate (v. t.) To divide into hundreds.

Centuriator (n.) Alt. of Centurist

Centurist (n.) An historian who distinguishes time by centuries, esp. one of those who wrote the Magdeburg Centuries. See under Century.

Centurion (n.) A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Roman army; a captain of a century.

Centuries (pl. ) of Century

Century (n.) A hundred; as, a century of sonnets; an aggregate of a hundred things.

Century (n.) A period of a hundred years; as, this event took place over two centuries ago.

Century (n.) A division of the Roman people formed according to their property, for the purpose of voting for civil officers.

Century (n.) One of sixty companies into which a legion of the army was divided. It was Commanded by a centurion.

Cepevorous (a.) Feeding upon onions.

Cephalad (adv.) Forwards; towards the head or anterior extremity of the body; opposed to caudad.

Cephalalgia (n.) Alt. of Cephalalgy

Cephalalgy (n.) Pain in the head; headache.

Cephalalgic (a.) Relating to, or affected with, headache.

Cephalalgic (n.) A remedy for the headache.

Cephalanthium (n.) Same as Anthodium.

Cephalaspis (n.) A genus of fossil ganoid fishes found in the old red sandstone or Devonian formation. The head is large, and protected by a broad shield-shaped helmet prolonged behind into two lateral points.

Cephalata (n. pl.) A large division of Mollusca, including all except the bivalves; -- so called because the head is distinctly developed. See Illustration in Appendix.

Cephalate (a.) Having a head.

Cephalic (a.) Of or pertaining to the head. See the Note under Anterior.

Cephalic (n.) A medicine for headache, or other disorder in the head.

Cephalitis (n.) Same as Phrenitis.

Cephalization (n.) Domination of the head in animal life as expressed in the physical structure; localization of important organs or parts in or near the head, in animal development.

Cephalo () A combining form denoting the head, of the head, connected with the head; as, cephalosome, cephalopod.

Cephalocercal (a.) Relating to the long axis of the body.

Cephaloid (a.) Shaped like the head.

Cephalology (n.) The science which treats of the head.

Cephalomere (n.) One of the somites (arthromeres) which make up the head of arthropods.

Cephalometer (n.) An instrument measuring the dimensions of the head of a fetus during delivery.

Cephalon (n.) The head.

Cephalophora (n. pl.) The cephalata.

Cephalopod (n.) Alt. of Cephalopode

Cephalopode (n.) One of the Cephalopoda.

Cephalopoda (n. pl.) The highest class of Mollusca.

Cephalopodic (a.) Alt. of Cephalopodous

Cephalopodous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the cephalopods.

Cephaloptera (n.) One of the generic names of the gigantic ray (Manta birostris), known as devilfish and sea devil. It is common on the coasts of South Carolina, Florida, and farther south. Some of them grow to enormous size, becoming twenty feet of more across the body, and weighing more than a ton.

Cephalosome (n.) The anterior region or head of insects and other arthropods.

Cephalostyle (n.) The anterior end of the notochord and its bony sheath in the base of cartilaginous crania.

Cephalothorax (n.) The anterior portion of any one of the Arachnida and higher Crustacea, consisting of the united head and thorax.

Cephalotome (n.) An instrument for cutting into the fetal head, to facilitate delivery.

Cephalotomy (n.) Dissection or opening of the head.

Cephalotomy (n.) Craniotomy; -- usually applied to bisection of the fetal head with a saw.

Cephalotribe (n.) An obstetrical instrument for performing cephalotripsy.

Cephalotripsy (n.) The act or operation of crushing the head of a fetus in the womb in order to effect delivery.

Cephalotrocha (n.) A kind of annelid larva with a circle of cilia around the head.

Cephalous (a.) Having a head; -- applied chiefly to the Cephalata, a division of mollusks.

Cepheus (n.) A northern constellation near the pole. Its head, which is in the Milky Way, is marked by a triangle formed by three stars of the fourth magnitude. See Cassiopeia.

Ceraceous (a.) Having the texture and color of new wax; like wax; waxy.

Cerago (n.) Beebread.

Ceramic (a.) Of or pertaining to pottery; relating to the art of making earthenware; as, ceramic products; ceramic ornaments for ceilings.

Ceramics (n.) The art of making things of baked clay; as pottery, tiles, etc.

Ceramics (n.) Work formed of clay in whole or in part, and baked; as, vases, urns, etc.

Cerargyrite (n.) Native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow or gray color, darkening on exposure to the light. It may be cut by a knife, like lead or horn (hence called horn silver).

Cerasin (n.) A white amorphous substance, the insoluble part of cherry gum; -- called also meta-arabinic acid.

Cerasin (n.) A gummy mucilaginous substance; -- called also bassorin, tragacanthin, etc.

Cerasinous (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, cerasin.

Cerasinous (a.) Of a cherry color.

Cerastes (n.) A genus of poisonous African serpents, with a horny scale over each eye; the horned viper.

Cerate (n.) An unctuous preparation for external application, of a consistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster, so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but does not melt when applied to the skin.

Cerated (p. a.) Covered with wax.

Ceratine (a.) Sophistical.

Ceratobranchia (n. pl.) A group of nudibranchiate Mollusca having on the back papilliform or branched organs serving as gills.

Ceratobranchial (a.) Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epibranchial in a branchial arch.

Ceratobranchial (n.) A ceratobranchial bone, or cartilage.

Ceratodus (n.) A genus of ganoid fishes, of the order Dipnoi, first known as Mesozoic fossil fishes; but recently two living species have been discovered in Australian rivers. They have lungs so well developed that they can leave the water and breathe in air. In Australia they are called salmon and baramunda. See Dipnoi, and Archipterygium.

Ceratohyal (a.) Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epihyal in the hyoid arch.

Ceratohyal (n.) A ceratohyal bone, or cartilage, which, in man, forms one of the small horns of the hyoid.

Ceratosaurus (n.) A carnivorous American Jurassic dinosaur allied to the European Megalosaurus. The animal was nearly twenty feet in length, and the skull bears a bony horn core on the united nasal bones. See Illustration in Appendix.

Ceratospongiae (n. pl.) An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of horny fibers. It includes all the commercial sponges.

Ceraunics (n.) That branch of physics which treats of heat and electricity.

Ceraunoscope (n.) An instrument or apparatus employed in the ancient mysteries to imitate thunder and lightning.

Cerberean (a.) Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus.

Cerberus (n.) A monster, in the shape of a three-headed dog, guarding the entrance into the infernal regions, Hence: Any vigilant custodian or guardian, esp. if surly.

Cerberus (n.) A genus of East Indian serpents, allied to the pythons; the bokadam.

Cercal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tail.

Cercarle (pl. ) of Cercaria

Cercaria (n.) The larval form of a trematode worm having the shape of a tadpole, with its body terminated by a tail-like appendage.

Cercarian (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, the Cercariae.

Cercarian (n.) One of the Cercariae.

Cercopod (n.) One of the jointed antenniform appendages of the posterior somites of certain insects.

Cerci (pl. ) of Cercus

Cercus (n.) See Cercopod.

Cere (n.) The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey, parrots, and some other birds. See Beak.

Cered (imp. & p. p.) of Cere

Cering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cere

Cere (v. t.) To wax; to cover or close with wax.

Cereal (a.) Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for their edible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds or grain.

Cereal (n.) Any grass cultivated for its edible grain, or the grain itself; -- usually in the plural.

Cerealia (n. pl.) Public festivals in honor of Ceres.

Cerealia (n. pl.) The cereals.

Cerealin (n.) A nitrogenous substance closely resembling diastase, obtained from bran, and possessing the power of converting starch into dextrin, sugar, and lactic acid.

Cerebel (n.) The cerebellum.

Cerebellar (a.) Alt. of Cerebellous

Cerebellous (a.) Pertaining to the cerebellum.

Cerebellums (pl. ) of Cerebellum

Cerebella (pl. ) of Cerebellum

Cerebellum (n.) The large lobe of the hind brain in front of and above the medulla; the little brain. It controls combined muscular action. See Brain.

Cerebral (a.) Of or pertaining to the cerebrum.

Cerebral (n.) One of a class of lingual consonants in the East Indian languages. See Lingual, n.

Cerebralism (n.) The doctrine or theory that psychical phenomena are functions or products of the brain only.

Cerebralist (n.) One who accepts cerebralism.

Cerebrate (v. i.) To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action.

Cerebration (n.) Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious.

Cerebric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the brain.

Cerebricity (n.) Brain power.

Cerebriform (a.) Like the brain in form or substance.

Cerebrifugal (a.) Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the brain to the spinal cord, and so transfer cerebral impulses (centrifugal impressions) outwards.

Cerebrin (n.) A nonphosphorized, nitrogenous substance, obtained from brain and nerve tissue by extraction with boiling alcohol. It is uncertain whether it exists as such in nerve tissue, or is a product of the decomposition of some more complex substance.

Cerebripetal (a.) Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord to the brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) from the exterior inwards.

Cerebritis (n.) Inflammation of the cerebrum.

Cerebroid (a.) Resembling, or analogous to, the cerebrum or brain.

Cerebrology (n.) The science which treats of the cerebrum or brain.

Cerebropathy (n.) A hypochondriacal condition verging upon insanity, occurring in those whose brains have been unduly taxed; -- called also brain fag.

Cerebroscopy (n.) Examination of the brain for the diagnosis of disease; esp., the act or process of diagnosticating the condition of the brain by examination of the interior of the eye (as with an ophthalmoscope).

Cerebrose (n.) A sugarlike body obtained by the decomposition of the nitrogenous non-phosphorized principles of the brain.

Cerebro-spinal (a.) Of or pertaining to the central nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord.

Cerebrums (pl. ) of Cerebrum

Cerebra (pl. ) of Cerebrum

Cerebrum (n.) The anterior, and in man the larger, division of the brain; the seat of the reasoning faculties and the will. See Brain.

Cerecloth (n.) A cloth smeared with melted wax, or with some gummy or glutinous matter.

Cerement (n.) A cerecloth used for the special purpose of enveloping a dead body when embalmed.

Cerement (n.) Any shroud or wrapping for the dead.

Ceremonial (a.) Relating to ceremony, or external rite; ritual; according to the forms of established rites.

Ceremonial (a.) Observant of forms; ceremonious. [In this sense ceremonious is now preferred.]

Ceremonial (n.) A system of rules and ceremonies, enjoined by law, or established by custom, in religious worship, social intercourse, or the courts of princes; outward form.

Ceremonial (n.) The order for rites and forms in the Roman Catholic church, or the book containing the rules prescribed to be observed on solemn occasions.

Ceremonialism (n.) Adherence to external rites; fondness for ceremony.

Ceremonially (adv.) According to rites and ceremonies; as, a person ceremonially unclean.

Ceremonialness (n.) Quality of being ceremonial.

Ceremonious (a.) Consisting of outward forms and rites; ceremonial. [In this sense ceremonial is now preferred.]

Ceremonious (a.) According to prescribed or customary rules and forms; devoted to forms and ceremonies; formally respectful; punctilious.

Ceremoniously (adv.) In a ceremonious way.

Ceremoniousness (n.) The quality, or practice, of being ceremonious.

Ceremonies (pl. ) of Ceremony

Ceremony (n.) Ar act or series of acts, often of a symbolical character, prescribed by law, custom, or authority, in the conduct of important matters, as in the performance of religious duties, the transaction of affairs of state, and the celebration of notable events; as, the ceremony of crowning a sovereign; the ceremonies observed in consecrating a church; marriage and baptismal ceremonies.

Ceremony (n.) Behavior regulated by strict etiquette; a formal method of performing acts of civility; forms of civility prescribed by custom or authority.

Ceremony (n.) A ceremonial symbols; an emblem, as a crown, scepter, garland, etc.

Ceremony (n.) A sign or prodigy; a portent.

Cereous (a.) Waxen; like wax.

Ceres (n.) The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn and tillage.

Ceres (n.) The first discovered asteroid.

Ceresin (n.) A white wax, made by bleaching and purifying ozocerite, and used as a substitute for beeswax.

Cereus (n.) A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives of America, from California to Chili.

Cerial (a.) Same as Cerrial.

Ceriferous (a.) Producing wax.

Cerin (n.) A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork; sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble in alcohol.

Cerin (n.) A variety of the mineral allanite.

Cerinthian (n.) One of an ancient religious sect, so called from Cerinthus, a Jew, who attempted to unite the doctrines of Christ with the opinions of the Jews and Gnostics.

Ceriph (n.) One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross strokes at the top and bottom of letters.

Cerise (a.) Cherry-colored; a light bright red; -- applied to textile fabrics, especially silk.

Cerite (n.) A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiidae; -- so called from its hornlike form.

Cerite (n.) A mineral of a brownish of cherry-red color, commonly massive. It is a hydrous silicate of cerium and allied metals.

Cerium (n.) A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite, allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resembles iron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable and ductile. It tarnishes readily in the air.

Cernuous (a.) Inclining or nodding downward; pendulous; drooping; -- said of a bud, flower, fruit, or the capsule of a moss.

Cero (n.) A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genus Scomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and less commonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the common cero (Scomberomorus caballa), called also kingfish, and spotted, or king, cero (S. regalis).

Cerograph (n.) A writing on wax.

Cerographic (a.) Alt. of Cerographical

Cerographical (a.) Of or pertaining to cerography.

Cerographist (n.) One who practices cerography.

Cerography (n.) The art of making characters or designs in, or with, wax.

Cerography (n.) A method of making stereotype plates from inscribed sheets of wax.

Cerolite (n.) A hydrous silicate of magnesium, allied to serpentine, occurring in waxlike masses of a yellow or greenish color.

Ceroma (n.) The unguent (a composition of oil and wax) with which wrestlers were anointed among the ancient Romans.

Ceroma (n.) That part of the baths and gymnasia in which bathers and wrestlers anointed themselves.

Ceroma (n.) The cere of birds.

Ceromancy (n.) Divination by dropping melted wax in water.

Ceroon (n.) A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound with hide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc.

Ceroplastic (a.) Relating to the art of modeling in wax.

Ceroplastic (a.) Modeled in wax; as, a ceroplastic figure.

Ceroplastics (n.) Alt. of Ceroplasty

Ceroplasty (n.) The art of modeling in wax.

Cerosin (n.) A waxy substance obtained from the bark of the sugar cane, and crystallizing in delicate white laminae.

Cerote (n.) See Cerate.

Cerotene (n.) A white waxy solid obtained from Chinese wax, and by the distillation of cerotin.

Cerotic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax or Chinese wax; as, cerotic acid or alcohol.

Cerotin (n.) A white crystalline substance, C27H55.OH, obtained from Chinese wax, and regarded as an alcohol of the marsh gas series; -- called also cerotic alcohol, ceryl alcohol.

Cerrial (a.) Of or pertaining to the cerris.

Cerris (n.) A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient and southern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak.

Certain (a.) Assured in mind; having no doubts; free from suspicions concerning.

Certain (a.) Determined; resolved; -- used with an infinitive.

Certain (a.) Not to be doubted or denied; established as a fact.

Certain (a.) Actually existing; sure to happen; inevitable.

Certain (a.) Unfailing; infallible.

Certain (a.) Fixed or stated; regular; determinate.

Certain (a.) Not specifically named; indeterminate; indefinite; one or some; -- sometimes used independenty as a noun, and meaning certain persons.

Certain (n.) Certainty.

Certain (n.) A certain number or quantity.

Certain (adv.) Certainly.

Certainly (adv.) Without doubt or question; unquestionably.

Certainness (n.) Certainty.

Certainties (pl. ) of Certainty

Certainty (n.) The quality, state, or condition, of being certain.

Certainty (n.) A fact or truth unquestionable established.

Certainty (n.) Clearness; freedom from ambiguity; lucidity.

Certes (adv.) Certainly; in truth; verily.

Certificate (n.) A written testimony to the truth of any fact; as, certificate of good behavior.

Certificate (n.) A written declaration legally authenticated.

Certificated (imp. & p. p.) of Certificate

Certificating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Certificate

Certificate (v. t.) To verify or vouch for by certificate.

Certificate (v. t.) To furnish with a certificate; as, to certificate the captain of a vessel; a certificated teacher.

Certification (n.) The act of certifying.

Certifier (n.) One who certifies or assures.

Certified (imp. & p. p.) of Certify

Certifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Certify

Certify (v. t.) To give cetain information to; to assure; to make certain.

Certify (v. t.) To give certain information of; to make certain, as a fact; to verify.

Certify (v. t.) To testify to in writing; to make a declaration concerning, in writing, under hand, or hand and seal.

Certiorari (n.) A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call up the records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending, in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice, or that errors and irregularities may be corrected. It is obtained upon complaint of a party that he has not received justice, or can not have an impartial trial in the inferior court.

Certitude (n.) Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty.

Cerule (a.) Blue; cerulean.

Cerulean (a.) Sky-colored; blue; azure.

Ceruleous (a.) Cerulean.

Cerulific (a.) Producing a blue or sky color.

Cerumen (n.) The yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the external ear; the earwax.

Ceruminous (a.) Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminous glands.

Ceruse (n.) White lead, used as a pigment. See White lead, under White.

Ceruse (n.) A cosmetic containing white lead.

Ceruse (n.) The native carbonate of lead.

Cerused (a.) Washed with a preparation of white lead; as, cerused face.

Cerusite (n.) Alt. of Cerussite

Cerussite (n.) Native lead carbonate; a mineral occurring in colorless, white, or yellowish transparent crystals, with an adamantine, also massive and compact.

Cervantite (n.) See under Antimony.

Cervelat (n.) An ancient wind instrument, resembling the bassoon in tone.

Cervical (a.) Of or pertaining to the neck; as, the cervical vertebrae.

Cervicide (n.) The act of killing deer; deer-slaying.

Cervine (a.) Of or pertaining to the deer, or to the family Cervidae.

Cervixes (pl. ) of Cervix

Cervices (pl. ) of Cervix

Cervix (n.) The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of the womb. See Illust. of Bird.

Cervus (n.) A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other allied species.

Ceryl (n.) A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compounds obtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc.

Cesarean (a.) Alt. of Cesarian

Cesarian (a.) Same as Caesarean, Caesarian.

Cesarism (n.) See Caesarism.

Cespitine (n.) An oil obtained by distillation of peat, and containing various members of the pyridine series.

Cespititious (a.) Same as Cespitious.

Cespitose (a.) Having the form a piece of turf, i. e., many stems from one rootstock or from many entangled rootstocks or roots.

Cespitous (a.) Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy.

Cess (n.) A rate or tax.

Cess (n.) Bound; measure.

Cessed (imp. & p. p.) of Cess

Cessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cess

Cess (v. t.) To rate; to tax; to assess.

Cess (v. i.) To cease; to neglect.

Cessant (a.) Inactive; dormant

Cessation (n.) A ceasing or discontinuance, as of action, whether temporary or final; a stop; as, a cessation of the war.

Cessavit (n.) A writ given by statute to recover lands when the tenant has for two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure.

Cesser (v. i.) a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for two years.

Cessible (a.) Giving way; yielding.

Cession (n.) A yielding to physical force.

Cession (n.) Concession; compliance.

Cession (n.) A yielding, or surrender, as of property or rights, to another person; the act of ceding.

Cession (n.) The giving up or vacating a benefice by accepting another without a proper dispensation.

Cession (n.) The voluntary surrender of a person's effects to his creditors to avoid imprisonment.

Cessionary (a.) Having surrendered the effects; as, a cessionary bankrupt.

Cessment (v. t.) An assessment or tax.

Cessor (v. i.) One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service by which he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ of cessavit. See Cessavit.

Cessor (v. t.) An assessor.

Cesspipe (n.) A pipe for carrying off waste water, etc., from a sink or cesspool.

Cesspool (n.) A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, to collect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; any receptacle of filth.

Cest (n.) A woman's girdle; a cestus.

Cestode (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.

Cestode (n.) One of the Cestoidea.

Cestoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.

Cestoid (n.) One of the Cestoidea.

Cestoidea (n. pl.) A class of parasitic worms (Platelminthes) of which the tapeworms are the most common examples. The body is flattened, and usually but not always long, and composed of numerous joints or segments, each of which may contain a complete set of male and female reproductive organs. They have neither mouth nor intestine. See Tapeworm.

Cestoldean (n.) One of the Cestoidea.

Cestraciont (n.) A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. The posterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushing shellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson shark and a similar one found in California are living examples.

Cestraciont (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the genus Cestracion.

Cestus (n.) A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gave the wearer the power of exciting love.

Cestus (n.) A genus of Ctenophora. The typical species (Cestus Veneris) is remarkable for its brilliant iridescent colors, and its long, girdlelike form.

Cestus (n.) A covering for the hands of boxers, made of leather bands, and often loaded with lead or iron.

Cestuy (pron.) Alt. of Cestui

Cestui (pron.) He; the one.

Cesura (n.) See Caesura.

Cesural (a.) See Caesural.

Cetacea (n. pl.) An order of marine mammals, including the whales. Like ordinary mammals they breathe by means of lungs, and bring forth living young which they suckle for some time. The anterior limbs are changed to paddles; the tail flukes are horizontal. There are two living suborders:

Cetacean (n.) One of the Cetacea.

Cetaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cetacea.

Cete (n.) One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea.

Cetene (n.) An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtained from spermaceti.

Ceterach (n.) A species of fern with fronds (Asplenium Ceterach).

Cetewale (n.) Same as Zedoary.

Cetic (a.) Of or pertaining to a whale.

Cetin (n.) A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part of spermaceti.

Cetological (a.) Of or pertaining to cetology.

Cetologist (a.) One versed in cetology.

Cetology (n.) The description or natural history of cetaceous animals.

Cetraric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the lichen, Iceland moss (Cetaria Islandica).

Cetrarin (n.) A white substance extracted from the lichen, Iceland moss (Cetraria Islandica). It consists of several ingredients, among which is cetraric acid, a white, crystalline, bitter substance.

Cetyl (n.) A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in a series of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derived from spermaceti.

Cetylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, spermaceti.

Ceylanite (n.) A dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel. It is also called pleonaste.

Ceylonese (a.) Of or pertaining to Ceylon.

Ceylonese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Ceylon.

C. G. S. () An abbreviation for Centimeter, Gram, Second. -- applied to a system of units much employed in physical science, based upon the centimeter as the unit of length, the gram as the unit of weight or mass, and the second as the unit of time.

Chab (n.) The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus).

Chabasite (n.) Alt. of Cabazite

Cabazite (n.) A mineral occuring in glassy rhombohedral crystals, varying, in color from white to yellow or red. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Called also chabasie.

Chablis (n.) A white wine made near Chablis, a town in France.

Chablis (n.) a white wine resembling Chablis{1}, but made elsewhere, as in California.

Chabouk (n.) Alt. of Chabuk

Chabuk (n.) A long whip, such as is used in the East in the infliction of punishment.

Chace (n.) See 3d Chase, n., 3.

Chace (v. t.) To pursue. See Chase v. t.

Chachalaca (n.) The Texan guan (Ortalis vetula).

Chak (v. i.) To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the restraint of the bridle.

Chacma (n.) A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); -- called also ursine baboon. [See Illust. of Baboon.]

Chaconne (n.) An old Spanish dance in moderate three-four measure, like the Passacaglia, which is slower. Both are used by classical composers as themes for variations.

Chad (n.) See Shad.

Chaetetes (n.) A genus of fossil corals, common in the lower Silurian limestones.

Chaetiferous (a.) Bearing setae.

Chaetodont (n.) A marine fish of the family Chaetodontidae. The chaetodonts have broad, compressed bodies, and usually bright colors.

Chaetodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chaetodonts or the family Chaetodontidae.

Chaetognath (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chaetognatha.

Chaetognatha (n. pl.) An order of free-swimming marine worms, of which the genus Sagitta is the type. They have groups of curved spines on each side of the head.

Chaetopod (a.) Pertaining to the Chaetopoda.

Chaetopod (n.) One of the Chaetopoda.

Chaetopoda (n. pl.) A very extensive order of Annelida, characterized by the presence of lateral setae, or spines, on most or all of the segments. They are divided into two principal groups: Oligochaeta, including the earthworms and allied forms, and Polychaeta, including most of the marine species.

Chaetotaxy (n.) The arrangement of bristles on an insect.

Chafed (imp. & p. p.) of Chafe

Chafing (p pr. & vb. n.) of Chafe

Chafe (v. t.) To excite heat in by friction; to rub in order to stimulate and make warm.

Chafe (v. t.) To excite passion or anger in; to fret; to irritate.

Chafe (v. t.) To fret and wear by rubbing; as, to chafe a cable.

Chafe (v. i.) To rub; to come together so as to wear by rubbing; to wear by friction.

Chafe (v. i.) To be worn by rubbing; as, a cable chafes.

Chafe (v. i.) To have a feeling of vexation; to be vexed; to fret; to be irritated.

Chafe (n.) Heat excited by friction.

Chafe (n.) Injury or wear caused by friction.

Chafe (n.) Vexation; irritation of mind; rage.

Chafer (n.) One who chafes.

Chafer (n.) A vessel for heating water; -- hence, a dish or pan.

Chafer (n.) A kind of beetle; the cockchafer. The name is also applied to other species; as, the rose chafer.

Chafery (v. t.) An open furnace or forge, in which blooms are heated before being wrought into bars.

Chafewax (n.) Alt. of Chaffwax

Chaffwax (n.) Formerly a chancery officer who fitted wax for sealing writs and other documents.

Chafeweed (n.) The cudweed (Gnaphalium), used to prevent or cure chafing.

Chaff (n.) The glumes or husks of grains and grasses separated from the seed by threshing and winnowing, etc.

Chaff (n.) Anything of a comparatively light and worthless character; the refuse part of anything.

Chaff (n.) Straw or hay cut up fine for the food of cattle.

Chaff (n.) Light jesting talk; banter; raillery.

Chaff (n.) The scales or bracts on the receptacle, which subtend each flower in the heads of many Compositae, as the sunflower.

Chaffed (imp. & p. p.) of Chaff

Chaffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chaff

Chaff (v. i.) To use light, idle language by way of fun or ridicule; to banter.

Chaff (v. t.) To make fun of; to turn into ridicule by addressing in ironical or bantering language; to quiz.

Chaffer (n.) One who chaffs.

Chaffer (n.) Bargaining; merchandise.

Chaffered (imp. & p. p.) of Chaffer

Chaffering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chaffer

Chaffer (n.) To treat or dispute about a purchase; to bargain; to haggle or higgle; to negotiate.

Chaffer (n.) To talk much and idly; to chatter.

Chaffer (v. t.) To buy or sell; to trade in.

Chaffer (v. t.) To exchange; to bandy, as words.

Chafferer (n.) One who chaffers; a bargainer.

Chaffern (v. t.) A vessel for heating water.

Chaffery (n.) Traffic; bargaining.

Chaffinch (n.) A bird of Europe (Fringilla coelebs), having a variety of very sweet songs, and highly valued as a cage bird; -- called also copper finch.

Chaffing (n.) The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule; raillery; banter.

Chaffless (a.) Without chaff.

Chaffy (a.) Abounding in, or resembling, chaff.

Chaffy (a.) Light or worthless as chaff.

Chaffy (a.) Resembling chaff; composed of light dry scales.

Chaffy (a.) Bearing or covered with dry scales, as the under surface of certain ferns, or the disk of some composite flowers.

Chafing (v. t.) The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing.

Chagreen (n.) See Shagreen.

Chagrin (n.) Vexation; mortification.

Chagrined (imp. & p. p.) of Chagrin

Chargrining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chagrin

Chagrin (n.) To excite ill-humor in; to vex; to mortify; as, he was not a little chagrined.

Chagrin (v. i.) To be vexed or annoyed.

Chagrin (a.) Chagrined.

Chain (n.) A series of links or rings, usually of metal, connected, or fitted into one another, used for various purposes, as of support, of restraint, of ornament, of the exertion and transmission of mechanical power, etc.

Chain (n.) That which confines, fetters, or secures, as a chain; a bond; as, the chains of habit.

Chain (n.) A series of things linked together; or a series of things connected and following each other in succession; as, a chain of mountains; a chain of events or ideas.

Chain (n.) An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuring land.

Chain (n.) Iron links bolted to the side of a vessel to bold the dead-eyes connected with the shrouds; also, the channels.

Chain (n.) The warp threads of a web.

Chained (imp. p. p.) of Chain

Chaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chain

Chain (v. t.) To fasten, bind, or connect with a chain; to fasten or bind securely, as with a chain; as, to chain a bulldog.

Chain (v. t.) To keep in slavery; to enslave.

Chain (v. t.) To unite closely and strongly.

Chain (v. t.) To measure with the chain.

Chain (v. t.) To protect by drawing a chain across, as a harbor.

Chainless (a.) Having no chain; not restrained or fettered.

Chainlet (n.) A small chain.

Chain pump () A pump consisting of an endless chain, running over a drum or wheel by which it is moved, and dipping below the water to be raised. The chain has at intervals disks or lifts which fit the tube through which the ascending part passes and carry the water to the point of discharge.

Chain stitch () An ornamental stitch like the links of a chain; -- used in crocheting, sewing, and embroidery.

Chain stitch () A stitch in which the looping of the thread or threads forms a chain on the under side of the work; the loop stitch, as distinguished from the lock stitch. See Stitch.

Chain wheel () A chain pulley, or sprocket wheel.

Chain wheel () An inversion of the chain pump, by which it becomes a motor driven by water.

Chainwork (n.) Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitch work.

Chair (n.) A movable single seat with a back.

Chair (n.) An official seat, as of a chief magistrate or a judge, but esp. that of a professor; hence, the office itself.

Chair (n.) The presiding officer of an assembly; a chairman; as, to address the chair.

Chair (n.) A vehicle for one person; either a sedan borne upon poles, or two-wheeled carriage, drawn by one horse; a gig.

Chair (n.) An iron block used on railways to support the rails and secure them to the sleepers.

Chaired (imp. & p. pr.) of Chair

Chairing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chair

Chair (v. t.) To place in a chair.

Chair (v. t.) To carry publicly in a chair in triumph.

Chairmen (pl. ) of Chairman

Chairman (n.) The presiding officer of a committee, or of a public or private meeting, or of any organized body.

Chairman (n.) One whose business it is to cary a chair or sedan.

Chairmanship (n.) The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body.

Chaise (n.) A two-wheeled carriage for two persons, with a calash top, and the body hung on leather straps, or thorough-braces. It is usually drawn by one horse.

Chaise (n.) a carriage in general.

Chaja (n.) The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, / Chauna, chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called also chauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is useful in guarding other poultry. See Kamichi.

Chalazas (pl. ) of Chalaza

Chalazae (pl. ) of Chalaza

Chalaza (n.) The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats cohere with each other and the nucleus.

Chalaza (n.) A spiral band of thickened albuminous substance which exists in the white of the bird's egg, and serves to maintain the yolk in its position; the treadle.

Chalazal (a.) Of or pertaining to the chalaza.

Chalaze (n.) Same as Chalaza.

Chalaziferous (a.) Having or bearing chalazas.

Chalazion (n.) A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retention of secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands.

Chalcanthite (n.) Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue.

Chalcedonic (a.) Of or pertaining to chalcedony.

Chalcedonies (pl. ) of Chalcedony

Chalcedony (n.) A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, having usually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax.

Chalchihuitl (n.) The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise.

Chalcid fly () One of a numerous family of hymenopterous insects (Chalcididae. Many are gallflies, others are parasitic on insects.

Chalcidian (n.) One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidae), having four small or rudimentary legs.

Chalcocite (n.) Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreous copper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster.

Chalcographer (n.) Alt. of Chalcographist

Chalcographist (n.) An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper plates for printing upon paper.

Chalcography (n.) The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially of engraving for printing.

Chalcopyrite (n.) Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur. It occurs massive and in tetragonal crystals of a bright brass yellow color.

Chaldaic (a.) Of or pertaining to Chaldea.

Chaldaic (n.) The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; Chaldee.

Chaldaism (n.) An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect.

Chaldean (a.) Of or pertaining to Chaldea.

Chaldean (n.) A native or inhabitant of Chaldea.

Chaldean (n.) A learned man, esp. an astrologer; -- so called among the Eastern nations, because astrology and the kindred arts were much cultivated by the Chaldeans.

Chaldean (n.) Nestorian.

Chaldee (a.) Of or pertaining to Chaldea.

Chaldee (n.) The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; eastern Aramaic, or the Aramaic used in Chaldea.

Chaldrich (n.) Alt. of Chalder

Chalder (n.) A kind of bird; the oyster catcher.

Chaldron (n.) An English dry measure, being, at London, 36 bushels heaped up, or its equivalent weight, and more than twice as much at Newcastle. Now used exclusively for coal and coke.

Chalet (n.) A herdsman's hut in the mountains of Switzerland.

Chalet (n.) A summer cottage or country house in the Swiss mountains; any country house built in the style of the Swiss cottages.

Chalice (n.) A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper.

Chaliced (a.) Having a calyx or cup; cup-shaped.

Chalk (n.) A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same composition as common limestone.

Chalk (n.) Finely prepared chalk, used as a drawing implement; also, by extension, a compound, as of clay and black lead, or the like, used in the same manner. See Crayon.

Chalked (imp. & p. p.) of Chalk

Chalking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chalk

Chalk (v. t.) To rub or mark with chalk.

Chalk (v. t.) To manure with chalk, as land.

Chalk (v. t.) To make white, as with chalk; to make pale; to bleach.

Chalkcutter (n.) A man who digs chalk.

Chalkiness (n.) The state of being chalky.

Chalkstone (n.) A mass of chalk.

Chalkstone (n.) A chalklike concretion, consisting mainly of urate of sodium, found in and about the small joints, in the external ear, and in other situations, in those affected with gout; a tophus.

Chalky (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, a chalky cliff; a chalky taste.

Challenge (n.) An invitation to engage in a contest or controversy of any kind; a defiance; specifically, a summons to fight a duel; also, the letter or message conveying the summons.

Challenge (n.) The act of a sentry in halting any one who appears at his post, and demanding the countersign.

Challenge (n.) A claim or demand.

Challenge (n.) The opening and crying of hounds at first finding the scent of their game.

Challenge (n.) An exception to a juror or to a member of a court martial, coupled with a demand that he should be held incompetent to act; the claim of a party that a certain person or persons shall not sit in trial upon him or his cause.

Challenge (n.) An exception to a person as not legally qualified to vote. The challenge must be made when the ballot is offered.

Challenged (imp. & p. p.) of Challenge

Challenging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Challenge

Challenge (n.) To call to a contest of any kind; to call to answer; to defy.

Challenge (n.) To call, invite, or summon to answer for an offense by personal combat.

Challenge (n.) To claim as due; to demand as a right.

Challenge (n.) To censure; to blame.

Challenge (n.) To question or demand the countersign from (one who attempts to pass the lines); as, the sentinel challenged us, with Who comes there?

Challenge (n.) To take exception to; question; as, to challenge the accuracy of a statement or of a quotation.

Challenge (n.) To object to or take exception to, as to a juror, or member of a court.

Challenge (n.) To object to the reception of the vote of, as on the ground that the person in not qualified as a voter.

Challenge (v. i.) To assert a right; to claim a place.

Challengeable (a.) That may be challenged.

Challenger (n.) One who challenges.

Challis (n.) A soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, for ladies' dresses.

Chalon (n.) A bed blanket.

Chalybean (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chalybes, an ancient people of Pontus in Asia Minor, celebrated for working in iron and steel.

Chalybean (a.) Of superior quality and temper; -- applied to steel.

Chalybeate (a.) Impregnated with salts of iron; having a taste like iron; as, chalybeate springs.

Chalybeate (n.) Any water, liquid, or medicine, into which iron enters as an ingredient.

Chalybeous (a.) Steel blue; of the color of tempered steel.

Chalybite (n.) Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite.

Cham (v. t.) To chew.

Cham (n.) The sovereign prince of Tartary; -- now usually written khan.

Chamade (n.) A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum.

Chamal (n.) The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora.

Chamber (n.) A retired room, esp. an upper room used for sleeping; a bedroom; as, the house had four chambers.

Chamber (n.) Apartments in a lodging house.

Chamber (n.) A hall, as where a king gives audience, or a deliberative body or assembly meets; as, presence chamber; senate chamber.

Chamber (n.) A legislative or judicial body; an assembly; a society or association; as, the Chamber of Deputies; the Chamber of Commerce.

Chamber (n.) A compartment or cell; an inclosed space or cavity; as, the chamber of a canal lock; the chamber of a furnace; the chamber of the eye.

Chamber (n.) A room or rooms where a lawyer transacts business; a room or rooms where a judge transacts such official business as may be done out of court.

Chamber (n.) A chamber pot.

Chamber (n.) That part of the bore of a piece of ordnance which holds the charge, esp. when of different diameter from the rest of the bore; -- formerly, in guns, made smaller than the bore, but now larger, esp. in breech-loading guns.

Chamber (n.) A cavity in a mine, usually of a cubical form, to contain the powder.

Chamber (n.) A short piece of ordnance or cannon, which stood on its breech, without any carriage, formerly used chiefly for rejoicings and theatrical cannonades.

Chambered (imp. & p. p.) of Chamber

Chambering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chamber

Chamber (v. i.) To reside in or occupy a chamber or chambers.

Chamber (v. i.) To be lascivious.

Chamber (v. t.) To shut up, as in a chamber.

Chamber (v. t.) To furnish with a chamber; as, to chamber a gun.

Chambered (a.) Having a chamber or chambers; as, a chambered shell; a chambered gun.

Chamberer (n.) One who attends in a chamber; a chambermaid.

Chamberer (n.) A civilian; a carpetmonger.

Chambering (n.) Lewdness.

Chamberlain (n.) An officer or servant who has charge of a chamber or chambers.

Chamberlain (n.) An upper servant of an inn.

Chamberlain (n.) An officer having the direction and management of the private chambers of a nobleman or monarch; hence, in Europe, one of the high officers of a court.

Chamberlain (n.) A treasurer or receiver of public money; as, the chamberlain of London, of North Wales, etc.

Chamberlainship (n.) Office of a chamberlain.

Chambermaid (n.) A maidservant who has the care of chambers, making the beds, sweeping, cleaning the rooms, etc.

Chambermaid (n.) A lady's maid.

Chambertin (n.) A red wine from Chambertin near Dijon, in Burgundy.

Chambrel (n.) Same as Gambrel.

Chameck (n.) A kind of spider monkey (Ateles chameck), having the thumbs rudimentary and without a nail.

Chameleon (n.) A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamaeleo, of several species, found in Africa, Asia, and Europe. The skin is covered with fine granulations; the tail is prehensile, and the body is much compressed laterally, giving it a high back.

Chameleonize (v. t.) To change into various colors.

Chamfer (n.) The surface formed by cutting away the arris, or angle, formed by two faces of a piece of timber, stone, etc.

Chamfered (imp. & p. p.) of Chamfer

Chamfering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chamfer

Chamfer (v. t.) To cut a furrow in, as in a column; to groove; to channel; to flute.

Chamfer (v. t.) To make a chamfer on.

Chamfret (n.) A small gutter; a furrow; a groove.

Chamfret (n.) A chamfer.

Chamfron (n.) The frontlet, or head armor, of a horse.

Chamlet (n.) See Camlet.

Chamois (n.) A small species of antelope (Rupicapra tragus), living on the loftiest mountain ridges of Europe, as the Alps, Pyrenees, etc. It possesses remarkable agility, and is a favorite object of chase.

Chamois (n.) A soft leather made from the skin of the chamois, or from sheepskin, etc.; -- called also chamois leather, and chammy or shammy leather. See Shammy.

Chamomile (n.) See Camomile.

Champed (imp. & p. p.) of Champ

Champing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Champ

Champ (v. t.) To bite with repeated action of the teeth so as to be heard.

Champ (v. t.) To bite into small pieces; to crunch.

Champ (v. i.) To bite or chew impatiently.

Champ (n.) Alt. of Champe

Champe (n.) The field or ground on which carving appears in relief.

Champagne (n.) A light wine, of several kinds, originally made in the province of Champagne, in France.

Champaign (n.) A flat, open country.

Champaign (a.) Flat; open; level.

Champer (n.) One who champs, or bites.

Champertor (n.) One guilty of champerty; one who purchases a suit, or the right of suing, and carries it on at his own expense, in order to obtain a share of the gain.

Champerty (n.) Partnership in power; equal share of authority.

Champerty (n.) The prosecution or defense of a suit, whether by furnishing money or personal services, by one who has no legitimate concern therein, in consideration of an agreement that he shall receive, in the event of success, a share of the matter in suit; maintenance with the addition of an agreement to divide the thing in suit. See Maintenance.

Champignon (n.) An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris).

Chappion (n.) One who engages in any contest; esp. one who in ancient times contended in single combat in behalf of another's honor or rights; or one who acts or speaks in behalf of a person or a cause; a defender; an advocate; a hero.

Chappion (n.) One who by defeating all rivals, has obtained an acknowledged supremacy in any branch of athetics or game of skill, and is ready to contend with any rival; as, the champion of England.

Championed (imp. & p. p.) of Champion

Championing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Champion

Champion (v. t.) To furnish with a champion; to attend or defend as champion; to support or maintain; to protect.

Championness (n.) A female champion.

Championship (n.) State of being champion; leadership; supremacy.

Champlain period () A subdivision of the Quaternary age immediately following the Glacial period; -- so named from beds near Lake Champlain.

Chamsin (n.) See Kamsin.

Chance (n.) A supposed material or psychical agent or mode of activity other than a force, law, or purpose; fortune; fate; -- in this sense often personified.

Chance (n.) The operation or activity of such agent.

Chance (n.) The supposed effect of such an agent; something that befalls, as the result of unknown or unconsidered forces; the issue of uncertain conditions; an event not calculated upon; an unexpected occurrence; a happening; accident; fortuity; casualty.

Chance (n.) A possibility; a likelihood; an opportunity; -- with reference to a doubtful result; as, a chance to escape; a chance for life; the chances are all against him.

Chance (n.) Probability.

Chanced (imp. & p. p.) of Chance

Chancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chance

Chance (v. i.) To happen, come, or arrive, without design or expectation.

Chance (v. t.) To take the chances of; to venture upon; -- usually with it as object.

Chance (v. t.) To befall; to happen to.

Chance (a.) Happening by chance; casual.

Chance (adv.) By chance; perchance.

Chanceable (a.) Fortuitous; casual.

Chanceably (adv.) By chance.

Chanceful (a.) Hazardous.

Chancel (v. t.) That part of a church, reserved for the use of the clergy, where the altar, or communion table, is placed.

Chancel (v. t.) All that part of a cruciform church which is beyond the line of the transept farthest from the main front.

Chancellery (n.) Chancellorship.

Chancellor (n.) A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in the United States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.

Chancellorship (n.) The office of a chancellor; the time during which one is chancellor.

Chance-medley (n.) The killing of another in self-defense upon a sudden and unpremeditated encounter. See Chaud-Medley.

Chance-medley (n.) Luck; chance; accident.

Chancery (n.) In England, formerly, the highest court of judicature next to the Parliament, exercising jurisdiction at law, but chiefly in equity; but under the jurisdiction act of 1873 it became the chancery division of the High Court of Justice, and now exercises jurisdiction only in equity.

Chancery (n.) In the Unites States, a court of equity; equity; proceeding in equity.

Chancre (n.) A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion of true syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- called also hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre.

Chancroid (n.) A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and some external characters, but differing from it in being the starting point of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; -- called also soft chancre.

Chancrous (a.) Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre.

Chandelier (n.) A candlestick, lamp, stand, gas fixture, or the like, having several branches; esp., one hanging from the ceiling.

Chandelier (n.) A movable parapet, serving to support fascines to cover pioneers.

Chandler (n.) A maker or seller of candles.

Chandler (n.) A dealer in other commodities, which are indicated by a word prefixed; as, ship chandler, corn chandler.

Chandlerly (a.) Like a chandler; in a petty way.

Chandlery (n.) Commodities sold by a chandler.

Chandoo (n.) An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India for smoking.

Chandry (n.) Chandlery.

Chanfrin (n.) The fore part of a horse's head.

Changed (imp. & p. p.) of Change

Changing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Change

Change (v. t.) To alter; to make different; to cause to pass from one state to another; as, to change the position, character, or appearance of a thing; to change the countenance.

Change (v. t.) To alter by substituting something else for, or by giving up for something else; as, to change the clothes; to change one's occupation; to change one's intention.

Change (v. t.) To give and take reciprocally; to exchange; -- followed by with; as, to change place, or hats, or money, with another.

Change (v. t.) Specifically: To give, or receive, smaller denominations of money (technically called change) for; as, to change a gold coin or a bank bill.

Change (v. i.) To be altered; to undergo variation; as, men sometimes change for the better.

Change (v. i.) To pass from one phase to another; as, the moon changes to-morrow night.

Change (v. t.) Any variation or alteration; a passing from one state or form to another; as, a change of countenance; a change of habits or principles.

Change (v. t.) A succesion or substitution of one thing in the place of another; a difference; novelty; variety; as, a change of seasons.

Change (v. t.) A passing from one phase to another; as, a change of the moon.

Change (v. t.) Alteration in the order of a series; permutation.

Change (v. t.) That which makes a variety, or may be substituted for another.

Change (v. t.) Small money; the money by means of which the larger coins and bank bills are made available in small dealings; hence, the balance returned when payment is tendered by a coin or note exceeding the sum due.

Change (v. t.) A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a building appropriated for mercantile transactions.

Change (v. t.) A public house; an alehouse.

Change (v. t.) Any order in which a number of bells are struck, other than that of the diatonic scale.

Changeability (n.) Changeableness.

Changeable (a.) Capable of change; subject to alteration; mutable; variable; fickle; inconstant; as, a changeable humor.

Changeable (a.) Appearing different, as in color, in different lights, or under different circumstances; as, changeable silk.

Changeableness (n.) The quality of being changeable; fickleness; inconstancy; mutability.

Changeably (adv.) In a changeable manner.

Changeful (a.) Full of change; mutable; inconstant; fickle; uncertain.

Changeless (a.) That can not be changed; constant; as, a changeless purpose.

Changeling (n.) One who, or that which, is left or taken in the place of another, as a child exchanged by fairies.

Changeling (n.) A simpleton; an idiot.

Changeling (n.) One apt to change; a waverer.

Changeling (a.) Taken or left in place of another; changed.

Changeling (a.) Given to change; inconstant.

Changer (n.) One who changes or alters the form of anything.

Changer (n.) One who deals in or changes money.

Changer (n.) One apt to change; an inconstant person.

Chank (n.) The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of several species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella pyrum. Called also chank chell.

Channel (n.) The hollow bed where a stream of water runs or may run.

Channel (n.) The deeper part of a river, harbor, strait, etc., where the main current flows, or which affords the best and safest passage for vessels.

Channel (n.) A strait, or narrow sea, between two portions of lands; as, the British Channel.

Channel (n.) That through which anything passes; means of passing, conveying, or transmitting; as, the news was conveyed to us by different channels.

Channel (n.) A gutter; a groove, as in a fluted column.

Channel (n.) Flat ledges of heavy plank bolted edgewise to the outside of a vessel, to increase the spread of the shrouds and carry them clear of the bulwarks.

Channeled (imp. & p. p.) of Channel

Channelled () of Channel

Channeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Channel

Channelling () of Channel

Channel (v. t.) To form a channel in; to cut or wear a channel or channels in; to groove.

Channel (v. t.) To course through or over, as in a channel.

Channeling (n.) The act or process of forming a channel or channels.

Channeling (n.) A channel or a system of channels; a groove.

Chanson (n.) A song.

Chansonnettes (pl. ) of Chansonnette

Chansonnette (n.) A little song.

Chanted (imp. & p. p.) of Chant

Chanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chant

Chant (v. t.) To utter with a melodious voice; to sing.

Chant (v. t.) To celebrate in song.

Chant (v. t.) To sing or recite after the manner of a chant, or to a tune called a chant.

Chant (v. i.) To make melody with the voice; to sing.

Chant (v. i.) To sing, as in reciting a chant.

Chant (v. t.) Song; melody.

Chant (v. t.) A short and simple melody, divided into two parts by double bars, to which unmetrical psalms, etc., are sung or recited. It is the most ancient form of choral music.

Chant (v. t.) A psalm, etc., arranged for chanting.

Chant (v. t.) Twang; manner of speaking; a canting tone.

Chantant (a.) Composed in a melodious and singing style.

Chanter (n.) One who chants; a singer or songster.

Chanter (n.) The chief singer of the chantry.

Chanter (n.) The flute or finger pipe in a bagpipe. See Bagpipe.

Chanter (n.) The hedge sparrow.

Chanterelle (n.) A name for several species of mushroom, of which one (Cantharellus cibrius) is edible, the others reputed poisonous.

Chanticleer (n.) A cock, so called from the clearness or loudness of his voice in crowing.

Chanting (n.) Singing, esp. as a chant is sung.

Chantor (n.) A chanter.

Chantress (n.) A female chanter or singer.

Chantries (pl. ) of Chantry

Chantry (n.) An endowment or foundation for the chanting of masses and offering of prayers, commonly for the founder.

Chantry (n.) A chapel or altar so endowed.

Chaomancy (n.) Divination by means of appearances in the air.

Chaos (n.) An empty, immeasurable space; a yawning chasm.

Chaos (n.) The confused, unorganized condition or mass of matter before the creation of distinct and orderly forms.

Chaos (n.) Any confused or disordered collection or state of things; a confused mixture; confusion; disorder.

Chaotic (a.) Resembling chaos; confused.

Chaotically (adv.) In a chaotic manner.

Chapped (imp. & p. p.) of Chap

Chapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chap

Chap (v. t.) To cause to open in slits or chinks; to split; to cause the skin of to crack or become rough.

Chap (v. t.) To strike; to beat.

Chap (v. i.) To crack or open in slits; as, the earth chaps; the hands chap.

Chap (v. i.) To strike; to knock; to rap.

Chap (n.) A cleft, crack, or chink, as in the surface of the earth, or in the skin.

Chap (n.) A division; a breach, as in a party.

Chap (n.) A blow; a rap.

Chap (n.) One of the jaws or the fleshy covering of a jaw; -- commonly in the plural, and used of animals, and colloquially of human beings.

Chap (n.) One of the jaws or cheeks of a vise, etc.

Chap (n.) A buyer; a chapman.

Chap (n.) A man or boy; a youth; a fellow.

Chap (v. i.) To bargain; to buy.

Chaparral (n.) A thicket of low evergreen oaks.

Chaparral (n.) An almost impenetrable thicket or succession of thickets of thorny shrubs and brambles.

Chapbook (n.) Any small book carried about for sale by chapmen or hawkers. Hence, any small book; a toy book.

Chape (n.) The piece by which an object is attached to something, as the frog of a scabbard or the metal loop at the back of a buckle by which it is fastened to a strap.

Chape (n.) The transverse guard of a sword or dagger.

Chape (n.) The metal plate or tip which protects the end of a scabbard, belt, etc.

Chapeux (pl. ) of Chapeau

Chapeau (n.) A hat or covering for the head.

Chapeau (n.) A cap of maintenance. See Maintenance.

Chaped (p. p. / a.) Furnished with a chape or chapes.

Chapel (n.) A subordinate place of worship

Chapel (n.) a small church, often a private foundation, as for a memorial

Chapel (n.) a small building attached to a church

Chapel (n.) a room or recess in a church, containing an altar.

Chapel (n.) A place of worship not connected with a church; as, the chapel of a palace, hospital, or prison.

Chapel (n.) In England, a place of worship used by dissenters from the Established Church; a meetinghouse.

Chapel (n.) A choir of singers, or an orchestra, attached to the court of a prince or nobleman.

Chapel (n.) A printing office, said to be so called because printing was first carried on in England in a chapel near Westminster Abbey.

Chapel (n.) An association of workmen in a printing office.

Chapel (v. t.) To deposit or inter in a chapel; to enshrine.

Chapel (v. t.) To cause (a ship taken aback in a light breeze) so to turn or make a circuit as to recover, without bracing the yards, the same tack on which she had been sailing.

Chapeless (a.) Without a chape.

Chapelet (n.) A pair of straps, with stirrups, joined at the top and fastened to the pommel or the frame of the saddle, after they have been adjusted to the convenience of the rider.

Chapelet (n.) A kind of chain pump, or dredging machine.

Chapellanies (pl. ) of Chapellany

Chapellany (n.) A chapel within the jurisdiction of a church; a subordinate ecclesiastical foundation.

Chapelry (n.) The territorial district legally assigned to a chapel.

Chaperon (n.) A hood; especially, an ornamental or an official hood.

Chaperon (n.) A device placed on the foreheads of horses which draw the hearse in pompous funerals.

Chaperon (n.) A matron who accompanies a young lady in public, for propriety, or as a guide and protector.

Chaperoned (imp. & p. p.) of Chaperon

Chaperoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chaperon

Chaperon (v. t.) To attend in public places as a guide and protector; to matronize.

Chaperonage (n.) Attendance of a chaperon on a lady in public; protection afforded by a chaperon.

Chapfallen (a.) Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication of humiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged. See Chopfallen.

Chapiter (n.) A capital [Obs.] See Chapital.

Chapiter (n.) A summary in writing of such matters as are to be inquired of or presented before justices in eyre, or justices of assize, or of the peace, in their sessions; -- also called articles.

Chaplain (n.) An ecclesiastic who has a chapel, or who performs religious service in a chapel.

Chaplain (n.) A clergyman who is officially attached to the army or navy, to some public institution, or to a family or court, for the purpose of performing divine service.

Chaplain (n.) Any person (clergyman or layman) chosen to conduct religious exercises for a society, etc.; as, a chaplain of a Masonic or a temperance lodge.

Chaplaincy (n.) The office, position, or station of a chaplain.

Chaplainship (n.) The office or business of a chaplain.

Chaplainship (n.) The possession or revenue of a chapel.

Chapless (a.) Having no lower jaw; hence, fleshless.

Chaplet (n.) A garland or wreath to be worn on the head.

Chaplet (n.) A string of beads, or part of a string, used by Roman Catholic in praying; a third of a rosary, or fifty beads.

Chaplet (n.) A small molding, carved into beads, pearls, olives, etc.

Chaplet (n.) A chapelet. See Chapelet, 1.

Chaplet (n.) A bent piece of sheet iron, or a pin with thin plates on its ends, for holding a core in place in the mold.

Chaplet (n.) A tuft of feathers on a peacock's head.

Chaplet (n.) A small chapel or shrine.

Chapleted (imp. & p. p.) of Chaplet

Chaplet (v. t.) To adorn with a chaplet or with flowers.

Chapmen (pl. ) of Chapman

Chapman (n.) One who buys and sells; a merchant; a buyer or a seller.

Chapman (n.) A peddler; a hawker.

Chappy () Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.

Chaps (n. pl.) The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap.

Chapter (n.) A division of a book or treatise; as, Genesis has fifty chapters.

Chapter (n.) An assembly of monks, or of the prebends and other clergymen connected with a cathedral, conventual, or collegiate church, or of a diocese, usually presided over by the dean.

Chapter (n.) A community of canons or canonesses.

Chapter (n.) A bishop's council.

Chapter (n.) A business meeting of any religious community.

Chapter (n.) An organized branch of some society or fraternity as of the Freemasons.

Chapter (n.) A meeting of certain organized societies or orders.

Chapter (n.) A chapter house.

Chapter (n.) A decretal epistle.

Chapter (n.) A location or compartment.

Chapter (v. t.) To divide into chapters, as a book.

Chapter (v. t.) To correct; to bring to book, i. e., to demand chapter and verse.

Chaptrel (n.) An impost.

Char (n.) Alt. of Charr

Charr (n.) One of the several species of fishes of the genus Salvelinus, allied to the spotted trout and salmon, inhabiting deep lakes in mountainous regions in Europe. In the United States, the brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) is sometimes called a char.

Char (n.) A car; a chariot.

Char (n.) Work done by the day; a single job, or task; a chore.

Char (v. t.) Alt. of Chare

Chare (v. t.) To perform; to do; to finish.

Chare (v. t.) To work or hew, as stone.

Char (v. i.) Alt. of Chare

Chare (v. i.) To work by the day, without being a regularly hired servant; to do small jobs.

Charred (imp. & p. p.) of Char

Charring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Char

Char (n.) To reduce to coal or carbon by exposure to heat; to reduce to charcoal; to burn to a cinder.

Char (n.) To burn slightly or partially; as, to char wood.

Chara (n.) A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems and whorled branches. They flourish in wet places.

Chars-a-banc (pl. ) of Char-a-bancs

Char-a-bancs (n.) A long, light, open vehicle, with benches or seats running lengthwise.

Charact (n.) A distinctive mark; a character; a letter or sign. [Obs.] See Character.

Character (n.) A distinctive mark; a letter, figure, or symbol.

Character (n.) Style of writing or printing; handwriting; the peculiar form of letters used by a particular person or people; as, an inscription in the Runic character.

Character (n.) The peculiar quality, or the sum of qualities, by which a person or a thing is distinguished from others; the stamp impressed by nature, education, or habit; that which a person or thing really is; nature; disposition.

Character (n.) Strength of mind; resolution; independence; individuality; as, he has a great deal of character.

Character (n.) Moral quality; the principles and motives that control the life; as, a man of character; his character saves him from suspicion.

Character (n.) Quality, position, rank, or capacity; quality or conduct with respect to a certain office or duty; as, in the miserable character of a slave; in his character as a magistrate; her character as a daughter.

Character (n.) The estimate, individual or general, put upon a person or thing; reputation; as, a man's character for truth and veracity; to give one a bad character.

Character (n.) A written statement as to behavior, competency, etc., given to a servant.

Character (n.) A unique or extraordinary individuality; a person characterized by peculiar or notable traits; a person who illustrates certain phases of character; as, Randolph was a character; Caesar is a great historical character.

Character (n.) One of the persons of a drama or novel.

Charactered (imp. & p. p.) of Character

Character (v. t.) To engrave; to inscribe.

Character (v. t.) To distinguish by particular marks or traits; to describe; to characterize.

Characterism (n.) A distinction of character; a characteristic.

Characteristic (a.) Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showing the character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person or thing; peculiar; distinctive.

Characteristic (n.) A distinguishing trait, quality, or property; an element of character; that which characterized.

Characteristic (n.) The integral part (whether positive or negative) of a logarithm.

Characteristical (a.) Characteristic.

Characteristically (adv.) In a characteristic manner; in a way that characterizes.

Characterization (n.) The act or process of characterizing.

Characterized (imp. & p. p.) of Characterize

Characterizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Characterize

Characterize (v. t.) To make distinct and recognizable by peculiar marks or traits; to make with distinctive features.

Characterize (v. t.) To engrave or imprint.

Characterize (v. t.) To indicate the character of; to describe.

Characterize (v. t.) To be a characteristic of; to make, or express the character of.

Characterless (a.) Destitute of any distinguishing quality; without character or force.

Charactery (n.) The art or means of characterizing; a system of signs or characters; symbolism; distinctive mark.

Charactery (n.) That which is charactered; the meaning.

Charade (n.) A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two or more significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as the word itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions or representations.

Charbocle (n.) Carbuncle.

Charbon (n.) A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of the corner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has become obliterated.

Charbon (n.) A very contagious and fatal disease of sheep, horses, and cattle. See Maligmant pustule.

Charcoal (v. t.) Impure carbon prepared from vegetable or animal substances; esp., coal made by charring wood in a kiln, retort, etc., from which air is excluded. It is used for fuel and in various mechanical, artistic, and chemical processes.

Charcoal (v. t.) Finely prepared charcoal in small sticks, used as a drawing implement.

Chard (n.) The tender leaves or leafstalks of the artichoke, white beet, etc., blanched for table use.

Chard (n.) A variety of the white beet, which produces large, succulent leaves and leafstalks.

Chare (n.) A narrow street.

Chare (n. & v.) A chore; to chore; to do. See Char.

Charged (imp. & p. p.) of Charge

Charging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Charge

Charge (v. t.) To lay on or impose, as a load, tax, or burden; to load; to fill.

Charge (v. t.) To lay on or impose, as a task, duty, or trust; to command, instruct, or exhort with authority; to enjoin; to urge earnestly; as, to charge a jury; to charge the clergy of a diocese; to charge an agent.

Charge (v. t.) To lay on, impose, or make subject to or liable for.

Charge (v. t.) To fix or demand as a price; as, he charges two dollars a barrel for apples.

Charge (v. t.) To place something to the account of as a debt; to debit, as, to charge one with goods. Also, to enter upon the debit side of an account; as, to charge a sum to one.

Charge (v. t.) To impute or ascribe; to lay to one's charge.

Charge (v. t.) To accuse; to make a charge or assertion against (a person or thing); to lay the responsibility (for something said or done) at the door of.

Charge (v. t.) To place within or upon any firearm, piece of apparatus or machinery, the quantity it is intended and fitted to hold or bear; to load; to fill; as, to charge a gun; to charge an electrical machine, etc.

Charge (v. t.) To ornament with or cause to bear; as, to charge an architectural member with a molding.

Charge (v. t.) To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to add to or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or.

Charge (v. t.) To call to account; to challenge.

Charge (v. t.) To bear down upon; to rush upon; to attack.

Charge (v. i.) To make an onset or rush; as, to charge with fixed bayonets.

Charge (v. i.) To demand a price; as, to charge high for goods.

Charge (v. i.) To debit on an account; as, to charge for purchases.

Charge (v. i.) To squat on its belly and be still; -- a command given by a sportsman to a dog.

Charge (v. t.) A load or burder laid upon a person or thing.

Charge (v. t.) A person or thing commited or intrusted to the care, custody, or management of another; a trust.

Charge (v. t.) Custody or care of any person, thing, or place; office; responsibility; oversight; obigation; duty.

Charge (v. t.) Heed; care; anxiety; trouble.

Charge (v. t.) Harm.

Charge (v. t.) An order; a mandate or command; an injunction.

Charge (v. t.) An address (esp. an earnest or impressive address) containing instruction or exhortation; as, the charge of a judge to a jury; the charge of a bishop to his clergy.

Charge (v. t.) An accusation of a wrong of offense; allegation; indictment; specification of something alleged.

Charge (v. t.) Whatever constitutes a burden on property, as rents, taxes, lines, etc.; costs; expense incurred; -- usually in the plural.

Charge (v. t.) The price demanded for a thing or service.

Charge (v. t.) An entry or a account of that which is due from one party to another; that which is debited in a business transaction; as, a charge in an account book.

Charge (v. t.) That quantity, as of ammunition, electricity, ore, fuel, etc., which any apparatus, as a gun, battery, furnace, machine, etc., is intended to receive and fitted to hold, or which is actually in it at one time

Charge (v. t.) The act of rushing upon, or towards, an enemy; a sudden onset or attack, as of troops, esp. cavalry; hence, the signal for attack; as, to sound the charge.

Charge (v. t.) A position (of a weapon) fitted for attack; as, to bring a weapon to the charge.

Charge (v. t.) A soft of plaster or ointment.

Charge (v. t.) A bearing. See Bearing, n., 8.

Charge (n.) Thirty-six pigs of lead, each pig weighing about seventy pounds; -- called also charre.

Charge (n.) Weight; import; value.

Chargeable (a.) That may be charged, laid, imposed, or imputes; as, a duty chargeable on iron; a fault chargeable on a man.

Chargeable (a.) Subject to be charge or accused; liable or responsible; as, revenues chargeable with a claim; a man chargeable with murder.

Chargeable (a.) Serving to create expense; costly; burdensome.

Chargeableness (n.) The quality of being chargeable or expensive.

Chargeably (adv.) At great cost; expensively.

Chargeant (a.) Burdensome; troublesome.

Charges d'affaires (pl. ) of Charge d'affaires

Charge d'affaires (n.) A diplomatic representative, or minister of an inferior grade, accredited by the government of one state to the minister of foreign affairs of another; also, a substitute, ad interim, for an ambassador or minister plenipotentiary.

Chargeful (a.) Costly; expensive.

Chargehouse (n.) A schoolhouse.

Chargeless (a.) Free from, or with little, charge.

Chargeous (a.) Burdensome.

Charger (n.) One who, or that which charges.

Charger (n.) An instrument for measuring or inserting a charge.

Charger (n.) A large dish.

Charger (n.) A horse for battle or parade.

Chargeship (n.) The office of a charge d'affaires.

Charily (adv.) In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally.

Chariness (n.) The quality of being chary.

Chariot (n.) A two-wheeled car or vehicle for war, racing, state processions, etc.

Chariot (n.) A four-wheeled pleasure or state carriage, having one seat.

Charioted (imp. & p. p.) of Chariot

Charioting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chariot

Chariot (v. t.) To convey in a chariot.

Chariotee (n.) A light, covered, four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two seats.

Charioteer (n.) One who drives a chariot.

Charioteer (n.) A constellation. See Auriga, and Wagones.

Charism (n.) A miraculously given power, as of healing, speaking foreign languages without instruction, etc., attributed to some of the early Christians.

Charismatic (a.) Of or pertaining to a charism.

Charitable (a.) Full of love and good will; benevolent; kind.

Charitable (a.) Liberal in judging of others; disposed to look on the best side, and to avoid harsh judgment.

Charitable (a.) Liberal in benefactions to the poor; giving freely; generous; beneficent.

Charitable (a.) Of or pertaining to charity; springing from, or intended for, charity; relating to almsgiving; eleemosynary; as, a charitable institution.

Charitable (a.) Dictated by kindness; favorable; lenient.

Charitableness (n.) The quality of being charitable; the exercise of charity.

Charitably (adv.) In a charitable manner.

Charities (pl. ) of Charity

Charity (n.) Love; universal benevolence; good will.

Charity (n.) Liberality in judging of men and their actions; a disposition which inclines men to put the best construction on the words and actions of others.

Charity (n.) Liberality to the poor and the suffering, to benevolent institutions, or to worthy causes; generosity.

Charity (n.) Whatever is bestowed gratuitously on the needy or suffering for their relief; alms; any act of kindness.

Charity (n.) A charitable institution, or a gift to create and support such an institution; as, Lady Margaret's charity.

Charity (n.) Eleemosynary appointments [grants or devises] including relief of the poor or friendless, education, religious culture, and public institutions.

Charivari (n.) A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tin horns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.

Chark (n.) Charcoal; a cinder.

Charked (imp. & p. p.) of Chark

Chark (v. t.) To burn to a coal; to char.

Charlatan (n.) One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantable pretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.

Charlatanic (a.) Alt. of Charlatanical

Charlatanical (a.) Of or like a charlatan; making undue pretension; empirical; pretentious; quackish.

Charlatanism (n.) Charlatanry.

Charlatanry (n.) Undue pretensions to skill; quackery; wheedling; empiricism.

Charles's Wain () The group of seven stars, commonly called the Dipper, in the constellation Ursa Major, or Great Bear. See Ursa major, under Ursa.

Charlock (n.) A cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers; wild mustard. It is troublesome in grain fields. Called also chardock, chardlock, chedlock, and kedlock.

Charlotte (n.) A kind of pie or pudding made by lining a dish with slices of bread, and filling it with bread soaked in milk, and baked.

Charm (n.) A melody; a song.

Charm (n.) A word or combination of words sung or spoken in the practice of magic; a magical combination of words, characters, etc.; an incantation.

Charm (n.) That which exerts an irresistible power to please and attract; that which fascinates; any alluring quality.

Charm (n.) Anything worn for its supposed efficacy to the wearer in averting ill or securing good fortune.

Charm (n.) Any small decorative object worn on the person, as a seal, a key, a silver whistle, or the like. Bunches of charms are often worn at the watch chain.

Charmed (imp. & p. p.) of Charm

Charming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Charm

Charm (n.) To make music upon; to tune.

Charm (n.) To subdue, control, or summon by incantation or supernatural influence; to affect by magic.

Charm (n.) To subdue or overcome by some secret power, or by that which gives pleasure; to allay; to soothe.

Charm (n.) To attract irresistibly; to delight exceedingly; to enchant; to fascinate.

Charm (n.) To protect with, or make invulnerable by, spells, charms, or supernatural influences; as, a charmed life.

Charm (v. i.) To use magic arts or occult power; to make use of charms.

Charm (v. i.) To act as, or produce the effect of, a charm; to please greatly; to be fascinating.

Charm (v. i.) To make a musical sound.

Charmel (n.) A fruitful field.

Charmer (n.) One who charms, or has power to charm; one who uses the power of enchantment; a magician.

Charmer (n.) One who delights and attracts the affections.

Charmeress (n.) An enchantress.

Charmful (a.) Abounding with charms.

Charming (a.) Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting; fascinating; attractive.

Charmless (a.) Destitute of charms.

Charneco (n.) Alt. of Charnico

Charnico (n.) A sort of sweet wine.

Charnel (a.) Containing the bodies of the dead.

Charnel (n.) A charnel house; a grave; a cemetery.

Charon (n.) The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions.

Charpie (n.) Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; -- used for surgical dressings.

Charqui (n.) Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the wind and sun.

Charr (n.) See 1st Char.

Charras (n.) The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). Same as Churrus.

Charre (n.) See Charge, n., 17.

Charry (a.) Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities.

Chart (n.) A sheet of paper, pasteboard, or the like, on which information is exhibited, esp. when the information is arranged in tabular form; as, an historical chart.

Chart (n.) A map; esp., a hydrographic or marine map; a map on which is projected a portion of water and the land which it surrounds, or by which it is surrounded, intended especially for the use of seamen; as, the United States Coast Survey charts; the English Admiralty charts.

Chart (n.) A written deed; a charter.

Charted (imp. & p. p.) of Chart

Chart (v. t.) To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart a coast.

Charta (n.) Material on which instruments, books, etc., are written; parchment or paper.

Charta (n.) A charter or deed; a writing by which a grant is made. See Magna Charta.

Chartaceous (a.) Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery.

Charte (n.) The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy, as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814.

Charter (n.) A written evidence in due form of things done or granted, contracts made, etc., between man and man; a deed, or conveyance.

Charter (n.) An instrument in writing, from the sovereign power of a state or country, executed in due form, bestowing rights, franchises, or privileges.

Charter (n.) An act of a legislative body creating a municipal or other corporation and defining its powers and privileges. Also, an instrument in writing from the constituted authorities of an order or society (as the Freemasons), creating a lodge and defining its powers.

Charter (n.) A special privilege, immunity, or exemption.

Charter (n.) The letting or hiring a vessel by special contract, or the contract or instrument whereby a vessel is hired or let; as, a ship is offered for sale or charter. See Charter party, below.

Chartered (imp. & p. p.) of Charter

Chartering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Charter

Charter (v. t.) To establish by charter.

Charter (v. t.) To hire or let by charter, as a ship. See Charter party, under Charter, n.

Chartered (a.) Granted or established by charter; having, or existing under, a charter; having a privilege by charter.

Chartered (a.) Hired or let by charter, as a ship.

Charterer (n.) One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage.

Charterhouse (n.) A well known public school and charitable foundation in the building once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London.

Charterist (n.) Same as Chartist.

Chartism (n.) The principles of a political party in England (1838-48), which contended for universal suffrage, the vote by ballot, annual parliaments, equal electoral districts, and other radical reforms, as set forth in a document called the People's Charter.

Chartist (n.) A supporter or partisan of chartism.

Chartless (a.) Without a chart; having no guide.

Chartless (a.) Not mapped; uncharted; vague.

Chartographer (n.) Alt. of Chartography

Chartographic (n.) Alt. of Chartography

Chartography (n.) Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.

Chartomancy (n.) Divination by written paper or by cards.

Chartometer (n.) An instrument for measuring charts or maps.

Chartreuse (n.) A Carthusian monastery; esp. La Grande Chartreuse, mother house of the order, in the mountains near Grenoble, France.

Chartreuse (n.) An alcoholic cordial, distilled from aromatic herbs; -- made at La Grande Chartreuse.

Chartreux (n.) A Carthusian.

Chartulary (n.) See Cartulary.

Charwomen (pl. ) of Charwoman

Charwoman (n.) A woman hired for odd work or for single days.

Chary (a.) Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift; saving; frugal.

Charybdis (n.) A dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite Scylla on the Italian coast. It is personified as a female monster. See Scylla.

Chasable (a.) Capable of being chased; fit for hunting.

Chased (imp. & p. p.) of Chase

Chasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chase

Chase (v. t.) To pursue for the purpose of killing or taking, as an enemy, or game; to hunt.

Chase (v. t.) To follow as if to catch; to pursue; to compel to move on; to drive by following; to cause to fly; -- often with away or off; as, to chase the hens away.

Chase (v. t.) To pursue eagerly, as hunters pursue game.

Chase (v. i.) To give chase; to hunt; as, to chase around after a doctor.

Chase (v.) Vehement pursuit for the purpose of killing or capturing, as of an enemy, or game; an earnest seeking after any object greatly desired; the act or habit of hunting; a hunt.

Chase (v.) That which is pursued or hunted.

Chase (v.) An open hunting ground to which game resorts, and which is private properly, thus differing from a forest, which is not private property, and from a park, which is inclosed. Sometimes written chace.

Chase (v.) A division of the floor of a gallery, marked by a figure or otherwise; the spot where a ball falls, and between which and the dedans the adversary must drive his ball in order to gain a point.

Chase (n.) A rectangular iron frame in which pages or columns of type are imposed.

Chase (n.) The part of a cannon from the reenforce or the trunnions to the swell of the muzzle. See Cannon.

Chase (n.) A groove, or channel, as in the face of a wall; a trench, as for the reception of drain tile.

Chase (n.) A kind of joint by which an overlap joint is changed to a flush joint, by means of a gradually deepening rabbet, as at the ends of clinker-built boats.

Chase (v. t.) To ornament (a surface of metal) by embossing, cutting away parts, and the like.

Chase (v. t.) To cut, so as to make a screw thread.

Chaser (n.) One who or that which chases; a pursuer; a driver; a hunter.

Chaser (n.) Same as Chase gun, esp. in terms bow chaser and stern chaser. See under Bow, Stern.

Chaser (n.) One who chases or engraves. See 5th Chase, and Enchase.

Chaser (n.) A tool with several points, used for cutting or finishing screw threads, either external or internal, on work revolving in a lathe.

Chasible (n.) See Chasuble.

Chasing (n.) The art of ornamenting metal by means of chasing tools; also, a piece of ornamental work produced in this way.

Chasm (n.) A deep opening made by disruption, as a breach in the earth or a rock; a yawning abyss; a cleft; a fissure.

Chasm (n.) A void space; a gap or break, as in ranks of men.

Chasmed (a.) Having gaps or a chasm.

Chasmy (a.) Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms.

Chasse (n.) A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left.

Chasse (v. i.) To make the movement called chasse; as, all chasse; chasse to the right or left.

Chasselas (n.) A white grape, esteemed for the table.

Chassepot (n.) A kind of breechloading, center-fire rifle, or improved needle gun.

Chasseur (n.) One of a body of light troops, cavalry or infantry, trained for rapid movements.

Chasseur (n.) An attendant upon persons of rank or wealth, wearing a plume and sword.

Chassis (n.) A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which the carriage of a barbette or casemate gun moves backward and forward. [See Gun carriage.]

Chast (v. t.) to chasten.

Chaste (a.) Pure from unlawful sexual intercourse; virtuous; continent.

Chaste (a.) Pure in thought and act; innocent; free from lewdness and obscenity, or indecency in act or speech; modest; as, a chaste mind; chaste eyes.

Chaste (a.) Pure in design and expression; correct; free from barbarisms or vulgarisms; refined; simple; as, a chaste style in composition or art.

Chaste (a.) Unmarried.

Chastely (adv.) In a chaste manner; with purity.

Chastened (imp. & p. p.) of Chasten

Chastening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chasten

Chasten (v. t.) To correct by punishment; to inflict pain upon the purpose of reclaiming; to discipline; as, to chasten a son with a rod.

Chasten (v. t.) To purify from errors or faults; to refine.

Chastened (a.) Corrected; disciplined; refined; purified; toned down.

Chastener (n.) One who chastens.

Chasteness (n.) Chastity; purity.

Chasteness (n.) Freedom from all that is meretricious, gaudy, or affected; as, chasteness of design.

Chastisable (a.) Capable or deserving of chastisement; punishable.

Chastised (imp. & p. p.) of Chastise

Chastising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chastise

Chastise (v. t.) To inflict pain upon, by means of stripes, or in any other manner, for the purpose of punishment or reformation; to punish, as with stripes.

Chastise (v. t.) To reduce to order or obedience; to correct or purify; to free from faults or excesses.

Chastisement (n.) The act of chastising; pain inflicted for punishment and correction; discipline; punishment.

Chastiser (n.) One who chastises; a punisher; a corrector.

Chastity (n.) The state of being chaste; purity of body; freedom from unlawful sexual intercourse.

Chastity (n.) Moral purity.

Chastity (n.) The unmarried life; celibacy.

Chastity (n.) Chasteness.

Chasuble (n.) The outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass, consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, back piece, and a narrower front piece, the two connected over the shoulders only. The back has usually a large cross, the front an upright bar or pillar, designed to be emblematical of Christ's sufferings. In the Greek Church the chasuble is a large round mantle.

Chatted (imp. & p. p.) of Chat

Chatting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chat

Chat (v. i.) To talk in a light and familiar manner; to converse without form or ceremony; to gossip.

Chat (v. t.) To talk of.

Chat (n.) Light, familiar talk; conversation; gossip.

Chat (n.) A bird of the genus Icteria, allied to the warblers, in America. The best known species are the yellow-breasted chat (I. viridis), and the long-tailed chat (I. longicauda). In Europe the name is given to several birds of the family Saxicolidae, as the stonechat, and whinchat.

Chat (n.) A twig, cone, or little branch. See Chit.

Chat (n.) Small stones with ore.

Chateux (pl. ) of Chateau

Chateau (n.) A castle or a fortress in France.

Chateau (n.) A manor house or residence of the lord of the manor; a gentleman's country seat; also, particularly, a royal residence; as, the chateau of the Louvre; the chateau of the Luxembourg.

Chatelaine (n.) An ornamental hook, or brooch worn by a lady at her waist, and having a short chain or chains attached for a watch, keys, trinkets, etc. Also used adjectively; as, a chatelaine chain.

Chatelet (n.) A little castle.

Chatellany (n.) Same as Castellany.

Chati (n.) A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis).

Chatoyant (a.) Having a changeable, varying luster, or color, like that of a changeable silk, or oa a cat's eye in the dark.

Chatoyant (n.) A hard stone, as the cat's-eye, which presents on a polished surface, and in the interior, an undulating or wary light.

Chatoyment (n.) Changeableness of color, as in a mineral; play of colors.

Chattel (n.) Any item of movable or immovable property except the freehold, or the things which are parcel of it. It is a more extensive term than goods or effects.

Chattelism (n.) The act or condition of holding chattels; the state of being a chattel.

Chattered (imp. & p. p.) of Chatter

Chattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chatter

Chatter (v. i.) To utter sounds which somewhat resemble language, but are inarticulate and indistinct.

Chatter (v. i.) To talk idly, carelessly, or with undue rapidity; to jabber; to prate.

Chatter (v. i.) To make a noise by rapid collisions.

Chatter (v. t.) To utter rapidly, idly, or indistinctly.

Chatter (n.) Sounds like those of a magpie or monkey; idle talk; rapid, thoughtless talk; jabber; prattle.

Chatter (n.) Noise made by collision of the teeth, as in shivering.

Chatteration (n.) The act or habit of chattering.

Chatterer (n.) A prater; an idle talker.

Chatterer (n.) A bird of the family Ampelidae -- so called from its monotonous note. The Bohemion chatterer (Ampelis garrulus) inhabits the arctic regions of both continents. In America the cedar bird is a more common species. See Bohemian chatterer, and Cedar bird.

Chattering (n.) The act or habit of talking idly or rapidly, or of making inarticulate sounds; the sounds so made; noise made by the collision of the teeth; chatter.

Chattiness (n.) The quality of being chatty, or of talking easily and pleasantly.

Chatty (a.) Given to light, familiar talk; talkative.

Chatty (n.) A porous earthen pot used in India for cooling water, etc.

Chatwood (n.) Little sticks; twigs for burning; fuel.

Chaud-medley (n.) The killing of a person in an affray, in the heat of blood, and while under the influence of passion, thus distinguished from chance-medley or killing in self-defense, or in a casual affray.

Chaudron (n.) See Chawdron.

Chauffer (n.) A table stove or small furnace, usually a cylindrical box of sheet iron, with a grate at the bottom, and an open top.

Chauldron (n.) See Chawdron.

Chaun (n.) A gap.

Chaun (v. t. & i.) To open; to yawn.

Chaunt (n. & v.) See Chant.

Chaunter (n.) A street seller of ballads and other broadsides.

Chaunter (n.) A deceitful, tricky dealer or horse jockey.

Chaunter (n.) The flute of a bagpipe. See Chanter, n., 3.

Chaunterie (n.) See Chantry.

Chaus (n.) a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus).

Chausses (n. pl.) The garment for the legs and feet and for the body below the waist, worn in Europe throughout the Middle Ages; applied also to the armor for the same parts, when fixible, as of chain mail.

Chaussure (n.) A foot covering of any kind.

Chauvinism (n.) Blind and absurd devotion to a fallen leader or an obsolete cause; hence, absurdly vainglorious or exaggerated patriotism.

Chavender (n.) The chub.

Chawed (imp. & p. p.) of Chaw

Chawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chaw

Chaw (v. t.) To grind with the teeth; to masticate, as food in eating; to chew, as the cud; to champ, as the bit.

Chaw (v. t.) To ruminate in thought; to consider; to keep the mind working upon; to brood over.

Chaw (v. t.) As much as is put in the mouth at once; a chew; a quid.

Chaw (v. t.) The jaw.

Chawdron (n.) Entrails.

Chay root () The root of the Oldenlandia umbellata, native in India, which yieds a durable red dyestuff.

Chazy epoch () An epoch at the close of the Canadian period of the American Lower Silurian system; -- so named from a township in Clinton Co., New York. See the Diagram under Geology.

Cheap (n.) A bargain; a purchase; cheapness.

Cheap (n.) Having a low price in market; of small cost or price, as compared with the usual price or the real value.

Cheap (n.) Of comparatively small value; common; mean.

Cheap (adv.) Cheaply.

Cheap (v. i.) To buy; to bargain.

Cheapened (imp. & p. p.) of Cheapen

Cheapening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cheapen

Cheapen (v. t.) To ask the price of; to bid, bargain, or chaffer for.

Cheapen (a.) To beat down the price of; to lessen the value of; to depreciate.

Cheapener (n.) One who cheapens.

Cheap-jack (n.) Alt. of Cheap-john

Cheap-john (n.) A seller of low-priced or second goods; a hawker.

Cheaply (adv.) At a small price; at a low value; in a common or inferior manner.

Cheapness (n.) Lowness in price, considering the usual price, or real value.

Chear (n. & v.) See Cheer.

Cheat (n.) An act of deception or fraud; that which is the means of fraud or deception; a fraud; a trick; imposition; imposture.

Cheat (n.) One who cheats or deceives; an impostor; a deceiver; a cheater.

Cheat (n.) A troublesome grass, growing as a weed in grain fields; -- called also chess. See Chess.

Cheat (n.) The obtaining of property from another by an intentional active distortion of the truth.

Cheated (imp. & p. p.) of Cheat

Cheating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cheat

Cheat (n.) To deceive and defraud; to impose upon; to trick; to swindle.

Cheat (n.) To beguile.

Cheat (v. i.) To practice fraud or trickery; as, to cheat at cards.

Cheat (n.) Wheat, or bread made from wheat.

Cheatable (a.) Capable of being cheated.

Cheatableness (n.) Capability of being cheated.

Cheater (n.) One who cheats.

Cheater (n.) An escheator.

Chebacco (n.) A narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundland fisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec.

Chebec (n.) See Chebacco.

Chebec (n.) A small American bird (Empidonax minimus); the least flycatcher.

Check (n.) A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were any other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced is said to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move.

Check (n.) A condition of interrupted or impeded progress; arrest; stop; delay; as, to hold an enemy in check.

Check (n.) Whatever arrests progress, or limits action; an obstacle, guard, restraint, or rebuff.

Check (n.) A mark, certificate, or token, by which, errors may be prevented, or a thing or person may be identified; as, checks placed against items in an account; a check given for baggage; a return check on a railroad.

Check (n.) A written order directing a bank or banker to pay money as therein stated. See Bank check, below.

Check (n.) A woven or painted design in squares resembling the patten of a checkerboard; one of the squares of such a design; also, cloth having such a figure.

Check (n.) The forsaking by a hawk of its proper game to follow other birds.

Check (n.) Small chick or crack.

Checked (imp. & p. p.) of Check

Checking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Check

Check (v. t.) To make a move which puts an adversary's piece, esp. his king, in check; to put in check.

Check (v. t.) To put a sudden restraint upon; to stop temporarily; to hinder; to repress; to curb.

Check (v. t.) To verify, to guard, to make secure, by means of a mark, token, or other check; to distinguish by a check; to put a mark against (an item) after comparing with an original or a counterpart in order to secure accuracy; as, to check an account; to check baggage.

Check (v. t.) To chide, rebuke, or reprove.

Check (v. t.) To slack or ease off, as a brace which is too stiffly extended.

Check (v. t.) To make checks or chinks in; to cause to crack; as, the sun checks timber.

Check (v. i.) To make a stop; to pause; -- with at.

Check (v. i.) To clash or interfere.

Check (v. i.) To act as a curb or restraint.

Check (v. i.) To crack or gape open, as wood in drying; or to crack in small checks, as varnish, paint, etc.

Check (v. i.) To turn, when in pursuit of proper game, and fly after other birds.

Check (a.) Checkered; designed in checks.

Checkage (n.) The act of checking; as, the checkage of a name or of an item in a list.

Checkage (n.) The items, or the amount, to which attention is called by a check or checks.

Checker (v. t.) One who checks.

Checkered (imp. & p. p.) of Checker

Checkering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Checker

Checker (n.) To mark with small squares like a checkerboard, as by crossing stripes of different colors.

Checker (n.) To variegate or diversify with different qualities, colors, scenes, or events; esp., to subject to frequent alternations of prosperity and adversity.

Checker (v. t.) A piece in the game of draughts or checkers.

Checker (v. t.) A pattern in checks; a single check.

Checker (v. t.) Checkerwork.

Checkerberries (pl. ) of Checkerberry

Checkerberry (n.) A spicy plant and its bright red berry; the wintergreen (Gaultheria procumbens). Also incorrectly applied to the partridge berry (Mitchella repens).

Checkerboard (n.) A board with sixty-four squares of alternate color, used for playing checkers or draughts.

Checkered (a.) Marked with alternate squares or checks of different color or material.

Checkered (a.) Diversified or variegated in a marked manner, as in appearance, character, circumstances, etc.

Checkers (v.) A game, called also daughts, played on a checkerboard by two persons, each having twelve men (counters or checkers) which are moved diagonally. The game is ended when either of the players has lost all his men, or can not move them.

Checkerwork (n.) Work consisting of or showing checkers varied alternately as to colors or materials.

Checkerwork (n.) Any aggregate of varied vicissitudes.

Checklaton (n.) Ciclatoun.

Checklaton (n.) Gilded leather.

Checkless (a.) That can not be checked or restrained.

Checkmate (n.) The position in the game of chess when a king is in check and cannot be released, -- which ends the game.

Checkmate (n.) A complete check; utter defeat or overthrow.

Checkmated (imp. & p. p.) of Checkmate

Checkmating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Checkmate

Checkmate (v. t.) To check (an adversary's king) in such a manner that escape in impossible; to defeat (an adversary) by putting his king in check from which there is no escape.

Checkmate (v. t.) To defeat completely; to terminate; to thwart.

Checkrein (n.) A short rein looped over the check hook to prevent a horse from lowering his head; -- called also a bearing rein.

Checkrein (n.) A branch rein connecting the driving rein of one horse of a span or pair with the bit of the other horse.

Checkroll (n.) A list of servants in a household; -- called also chequer roll.

Checkstring (n.) A cord by which a person in a carriage or horse car may signal to the driver.

Checkwork (n.) Anything made so as to form alternate squares like those of a checkerboard.

Checky (a.) Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; -- said of the field or of an armorial bearing.

Cheddar (a.) Of or pertaining to, or made at, Cheddar, in England; as, Cheddar cheese.

Cheek (n.) The side of the face below the eye.

Cheek (n.) The cheek bone.

Cheek (n.) Those pieces of a machine, or of any timber, or stone work, which form corresponding sides, or which are similar and in pair; as, the cheeks (jaws) of a vise; the cheeks of a gun carriage, etc.

Cheek (n.) The branches of a bridle bit.

Cheek (n.) A section of a flask, so made that it can be moved laterally, to permit the removal of the pattern from the mold; the middle part of a flask.

Cheek (n.) Cool confidence; assurance; impudence.

Cheek (v. t.) To be impudent or saucy to.

Cheeked (a.) Having a cheek; -- used in composition.

Cheeky () a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold.

Cheeped (imp. & p. p.) of Cheep

Cheep (v. i.) To chirp, as a young bird.

Cheep (v. t.) To give expression to in a chirping tone.

Cheep (n.) A chirp, peep, or squeak, as of a young bird or mouse.

Cheer (n.) The face; the countenance or its expression.

Cheer (n.) Feeling; spirit; state of mind or heart.

Cheer (n.) Gayety; mirth; cheerfulness; animation.

Cheer (n.) That which promotes good spirits or cheerfulness; provisions prepared for a feast; entertainment; as, a table loaded with good cheer.

Cheer (n.) A shout, hurrah, or acclamation, expressing joy enthusiasm, applause, favor, etc.

Cheered (imp. & p. p.) of Cheer

Cheering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cheer

Cheer (v. t.) To cause to rejoice; to gladden; to make cheerful; -- often with up.

Cheer (v. t.) To infuse life, courage, animation, or hope, into; to inspirit; to solace or comfort.

Cheer (v. t.) To salute or applaud with cheers; to urge on by cheers; as, to cheer hounds in a chase.

Cheer (v. i.) To grow cheerful; to become gladsome or joyous; -- usually with up.

Cheer (v. i.) To be in any state or temper of mind.

Cheer (v. i.) To utter a shout or shouts of applause, triumph, etc.

Cheerer (n.) One who cheers; one who, or that which, gladdens.

Cheerful (a.) Having or showing good spirits or joy; cheering; cheery; contented; happy; joyful; lively; animated; willing.

Cheerfully (adv.) In a cheerful manner, gladly.

Cheerfulness (n.) Good spirits; a state of moderate joy or gayety; alacrity.

Cheerily (adv.) In a cheery manner.

Cheeriness (n.) The state of being cheery.

Cheeringly (adv.) In a manner to cheer or encourage.

Cheerisness (n.) Cheerfulness.

Cheerless (a.) Without joy, gladness, or comfort.

Cheerly (a.) Gay; cheerful.

Cheerly (adv.) Cheerily.

Cheerry (a.) Cheerful; lively; gay; bright; pleasant; as, a cheery person.

Cheese (n.) The curd of milk, coagulated usually with rennet, separated from the whey, and pressed into a solid mass in a hoop or mold.

Cheese (n.) A mass of pomace, or ground apples, pressed together in the form of a cheese.

Cheese (n.) The flat, circular, mucilaginous fruit of the dwarf mallow (Malva rotundifolia).

Cheese (n.) A low courtesy; -- so called on account of the cheese form assumed by a woman's dress when she stoops after extending the skirts by a rapid gyration.

Cheeselep (n.) A bag in which rennet is kept.

Cheesemonger (n.) One who deals in cheese.

Cheeseparing (n.) A thin portion of the rind of a cheese.

Cheeseparing (a.) Scrimping; mean; as, cheeseparing economy.

Cheesiness (n.) The quality of being cheesy.

Cheesy (a.) Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, or appearance of cheese.

Cheetah (n.) A species of leopard (Cynaelurus jubatus) tamed and used for hunting in India. The woolly cheetah of South Africa is C. laneus.

Chef (n.) A chief of head person.

Chef (n.) The head cook of large establishment, as a club, a family, etc.

Chef (n.) Same as Chief.

Chefs-d'oeuvre (pl. ) of Chef-d'oeuvre

Chef-d'oeuvre (n.) A masterpiece; a capital work in art, literature, etc.

Chegoe (n.) Alt. of Chegre

Chegre (n.) See Chigoe.

Cheiloplasty (n.) The process of forming an artificial tip or part of a lip, by using for the purpose a piece of healthy tissue taken from some neighboring part.

Cheilopoda (n.) See Ch/lopoda.

Cheirepter (n.) One of the Cheiroptera.

Cheiroptera (n. pl.) An order of mammalia, including the bats, having four toes of each of the anterior limbs elongated and connected by a web, so that they can be used like wings in flying. See Bat.

Cheiropterous (a.) Belonging to the Cheiroptera, or Bat family.

Cheiropterygia (pl. ) of Cheiropterygium

Cheiropterygium (n.) The typical pentadactyloid limb of the higher vertebrates.

Cheirosophy (n.) The art of reading character as it is delineated in the hand.

Cheirotherium (n.) A genus of extinct animals, so named from fossil footprints rudely resembling impressions of the human hand, and believed to have been made by labyrinthodont reptiles. See Illustration in Appendix.

Chekelatoun (n.) See Ciclatoun.

Chekmak (n.) A turkish fabric of silk and cotton, with gold thread interwoven.

Chelae (pl. ) of Chela

Chela (n.) The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida.

Chelate (a.) Same as Cheliferous.

Chelerythrine (n.) An alkaloidal principle obtained from the celandine, and named from the red color of its salts. It is a colorless crystalline substance, and acts as an acrid narcotic poison. It is identical with sanguinarine.

Chelicerae (pl. ) of Chelicera

Chelicera (n.) One of the anterior pair of mouth organs, terminated by a pincherlike claw, in scorpions and allied Arachnida. They are homologous with the falcers of spiders, and probably with the mandibles of insects.

Chelidon (n.) The hollow at the flexure of the arm.

Chelidonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the celandine.

Chelidonius (n.) A small stone taken from the gizzard of a young swallow. -- anciently worn as a medicinal charm.

Chelifer (n.) See Book scorpion, under Book.

Cheliferous (a.) Having cheliform claws, like a crab.

Cheliform (a.) Having a movable joint or finger closing against a preceding joint or a projecting part of it, so that the whole may be used for grasping, as the claw of a crab; pincherlike.

Chelone (n.) A genus of hardy perennial flowering plants, of the order Scrophulariaceae, natives of North America; -- called also snakehead, turtlehead, shellflower, etc.

Chelonia (n. pl.) An order of reptiles, including the tortoises and turtles, peculiar in having a part of the vertebrae, ribs, and sternum united with the dermal plates so as to form a firm shell. The jaws are covered by a horny beak. See Reptilia; also, Illust. in Appendix.

Chelonian (a.) Of or pertaining to animals of the tortoise kind.

Chelonian (n.) One of the Chelonia.

Chelura (n.) A genus of marine amphipod crustacea, which bore into and sometimes destroy timber.

Chely (n.) A claw. See Chela.

Chemic (n.) A chemist; an alchemist.

Chemic (n.) A solution of chloride of lime.

Chemic (a.) Chemical.

Chemical (a.) Pertaining to chemistry; characterized or produced by the forces and operations of chemistry; employed in the processes of chemistry; as, chemical changes; chemical combinations.

Chemical (n.) A substance used for producing a chemical effect; a reagent.

Chemically (adv.) According to chemical principles; by chemical process or operation.

Chemiglyphic (a.) Engraved by a voltaic battery.

Chemiloon (n.) A garment for women, consisting of chemise and drawers united in one.

Chemise (n.) A shift, or undergarment, worn by women.

Chemise (n.) A wall that lines the face of a bank or earthwork.

Chemisette (n.) An under-garment, worn by women, usually covering the neck, shoulders, and breast.

Chemism (n.) The force exerted between the atoms of elementary substance whereby they unite to form chemical compounds; chemical attaction; affinity; -- sometimes used as a general expression for chemical activity or relationship.

Chemist (n.) A person versed in chemistry or given to chemical investigation; an analyst; a maker or seller of chemicals or drugs.

Chemistry (n.) That branch of science which treats of the composition of substances, and of the changes which they undergo in consequence of alterations in the constitution of the molecules, which depend upon variations of the number, kind, or mode of arrangement, of the constituent atoms. These atoms are not assumed to be indivisible, but merely the finest grade of subdivision hitherto attained. Chemistry deals with the changes in the composition and constitution of molecules. See Atom, Molecule.

Chemistry (n.) An application of chemical theory and method to the consideration of some particular subject; as, the chemistry of iron; the chemistry of indigo.

Chemistry (n.) A treatise on chemistry.

Chemitype (n.) One of a number of processes by which an impression from an engraved plate is obtained in relief, to be used for printing on an ordinary printing press.

Chemolysis (n.) A term sometimes applied to the decomposition of organic substance into more simple bodies, by the use of chemical agents alone.

Chemosmosis (n.) Chemical action taking place through an intervening membrane.

Chemosmotic (a.) Pertaining to, or produced by, chemosmosis.

Chemung period () A subdivision in the upper part of the Devonian system in America, so named from the Chemung River, along which the rocks are well developed. It includes the Portage and Chemung groups or epochs. See the Diagram under Geology.

Cheng (n.) A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth.

Chenille (n.) Tufted cord, of silk or worsted, for the trimming of ladies' dresses, for embroidery and fringes, and for the weft of Chenille rugs.

Chenomorphae (n. pl.) An order of birds, including the swans, ducks, geese, flamingoes and screamers.

Chepster (n.) The European starling.

Cheque (n.) See Check.

Chequer (n. & v.) Same as Checker.

Chequing (n.) A coin. See Sequin.

Chequy (n.) Same as Checky.

Cherif (n.) See Cherif.

Cherimoyer (n.) A small downy-leaved tree (Anona Cherimolia), with fragrant flowers. It is a native of Peru.

Cherimoyer (n.) Its delicious fruit, which is succulent, dark purple, and similar to the custard apple of the West Indies.

Cherished (imp. & p. p.) of Cherish

Cherising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cherish

Cherish (v. t.) To treat with tenderness and affection; to nurture with care; to protect and aid.

Cherish (v. t.) To hold dear; to embrace with interest; to indulge; to encourage; to foster; to promote; as, to cherish religious principle.

Cherisher (n.) One who cherishes.

Cherishment (n.) Encouragement; comfort.

Chermes (n.) See Kermes.

Cherogril (n.) See Cony.

Cherokees (n. pl.) An Appalachian tribe of Indians, formerly inhabiting the region about the head waters of the Tennessee River. They are now mostly settled in the Indian Territory, and have become one of the most civilized of the Indian Tribes.

Cheroot (n.) A kind of cigar, originally brought from Mania, in the Philippine Islands; now often made of inferior or adulterated tobacco.

Cherry (n.) A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes the plum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone;

Cherry (n.) The common garden cherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties are cultivated for the fruit, some of which are, the begarreau, blackheart, black Tartarian, oxheart, morelle or morello, May-duke (corrupted from Medoc in France).

Cherry (n.) The wild cherry; as, Prunus serotina (wild black cherry), valued for its timber; P. Virginiana (choke cherry), an American shrub which bears astringent fruit; P. avium and P. Padus, European trees (bird cherry).

Cherry (n.) The fruit of the cherry tree, a drupe of various colors and flavors.

Cherry (n.) The timber of the cherry tree, esp. of the black cherry, used in cabinetmaking, etc.

Cherry (n.) A peculiar shade of red, like that of a cherry.

Cherry (a.) Like a red cherry in color; ruddy; blooming; as, a cherry lip; cherry cheeks.

Chersonese (n.) A peninsula; a tract of land nearly surrounded by water, but united to a larger tract by a neck of land or isthmus; as, the Cimbric Chersonese, or Jutland; the Tauric Chersonese, or Crimea.

Chert (n.) An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dull color.

Cherty (a.) Like chert; containing chert; flinty.

Cherubs (pl. ) of Cherub

Cherubim (pl. ) of Cherub

Cherub (n.) A mysterious composite being, the winged footstool and chariot of the Almighty, described in Ezekiel i. and x.

Cherub (n.) A symbolical winged figure of unknown form used in connection with the mercy seat of the Jewish Ark and Temple.

Cherub (n.) One of a order of angels, variously represented in art. In European painting the cherubim have been shown as blue, to denote knowledge, as distinguished from the seraphim (see Seraph), and in later art the children's heads with wings are generally called cherubs.

Cherub (n.) A beautiful child; -- so called because artists have represented cherubs as beautiful children.

Cherubic (a.) Alt. of Cherubical

Cherubical (a.) Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic.

Cherubim (n.) The Hebrew plural of Cherub.. Cf. Seraphim.

Cherubin (a.) Cherubic; angelic.

Cherubin (n.) A cherub.

Cherup (v. i.) To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup.

Cherup (v. t.) To excite or urge on by making a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to cherup to. See Chirrup.

Cherup (n.) A short, sharp, cheerful noise; a chirp; a chirrup; as, the cherup of a cricket.

Chervil (n.) A plant (Anthriscus cerefolium) with pinnately divided aromatic leaves, of which several curled varieties are used in soups and salads.

Ches () pret. of Chese.

Chese (v. t.) To choose

Chesible (n.) See Chasuble.

Cheslip (n.) The wood louse.

Chess (n.) A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with two differently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player has a king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, and eight pawns.

Chess (n.) A species of brome grass (Bromus secalinus) which is a troublesome weed in wheat fields, and is often erroneously regarded as degenerate or changed wheat; it bears a very slight resemblance to oats, and if reaped and ground up with wheat, so as to be used for food, is said to produce narcotic effects; -- called also cheat and Willard's bromus.

Chess-apple (n.) The wild service of Europe (Purus torminalis).

Chessboard (n.) The board used in the game of chess, having eight rows of alternate light and dark squares, eight in each row. See Checkerboard.

Chessel (n.) The wooden mold in which cheese is pressed.

Chesses (n. pl.) The platforms, consisting of two or more planks doweled together, for the flooring of a temporary military bridge.

Chessil (n.) Gravel or pebbles.

Chessmen (pl. ) of Chessman

Chessman (n.) A piece used in the game of chess.

Chessom (n.) Mellow earth; mold.

Chesstree (n.) A piece of oak bolted perpendicularly on the side of a vessel, to aid in drawing down and securing the clew of the mainsail.

Chessy copper () The mineral azurite, found in fine crystallization at Chessy, near Lyons; called also chessylite.

Chest (n.) A large box of wood, or other material, having, like a trunk, a lid, but no covering of skin, leather, or cloth.

Chest (n.) A coffin.

Chest (n.) The part of the body inclosed by the ribs and breastbone; the thorax.

Chest (n.) A case in which certain goods, as tea, opium, etc., are transported; hence, the quantity which such a case contains.

Chest (n.) A tight receptacle or box, usually for holding gas, steam, liquids, etc.; as, the steam chest of an engine; the wind chest of an organ.

Chested (imp. & p. p.) of Chest

Chest (v. i.) To deposit in a chest; to hoard.

Chest (v. i.) To place in a coffin.

Chest (n.) Strife; contention; controversy.

Chested (a.) Having (such) a chest; -- in composition; as, broad-chested; narrow-chested.

Chesterlite (n.) A variety of feldspar found in crystals in the county of Chester, Pennsylvania.

Chesteyn (n.) The chestnut tree.

Chest founder () A rheumatic affection of the muscles of the breast and fore legs of a horse, affecting motion and respiration.

Chestnut (n.) The edible nut of a forest tree (Castanea vesca) of Europe and America. Commonly two or more of the nuts grow in a prickly bur.

Chestnut (n.) The tree itself, or its light, coarse-grained timber, used for ornamental work, furniture, etc.

Chestnut (n.) A bright brown color, like that of the nut.

Chestnut (n.) The horse chestnut (often so used in England).

Chestnut (n.) One of the round, or oval, horny plates on the inner sides of the legs of the horse, and allied animals.

Chestnut (n.) An old joke or story.

Chestnut (a.) Of the color of a chestnut; of a reddish brown color; as, chestnut curls.

Chetah (n.) See Cheetah.

Chetvert (n.) A measure of grain equal to 0.7218 of an imperial quarter, or 5.95 Winchester bushels.

Chevachie (n.) See Chivachie.

Chevage (n.) See Chiefage.

Chevaux (pl. ) of Cheval

Cheval (n.) A horse; hence, a support or frame.

Chevaux-de-frise (pl. ) of Cheval-de-frise

Cheval-de-frise (n.) A piece of timber or an iron barrel traversed with iron-pointed spikes or spears, five or six feet long, used to defend a passage, stop a breach, or impede the advance of cavalry, etc.

Chevalier (n.) A horseman; a knight; a gallant young man.

Chevalier (n.) A member of certain orders of knighthood.

Chevaux (n. pl.) See Cheval.

Cheve (v. i.) To come to an issue; to turn out; to succeed; as, to cheve well in a enterprise.

Chevelure (n.) A hairlike envelope.

Cheven (n.) A river fish; the chub.

Cheventein (n.) A variant of Chieftain.

Cheveril (v. i.) Soft leather made of kid skin. Fig.: Used as a symbol of flexibility.

Cheveril (a.) Made of cheveril; pliant.

Cheverliize (v. i.) To make as pliable as kid leather.

Chevet (n.) The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round or polygonal part.

Cheviot (n.) A valuable breed of mountain sheep in Scotland, which takes its name from the Cheviot hills.

Cheviot (n.) A woolen fabric, for men's clothing.

Chevisance (n.) Achievement; deed; performance.

Chevisance (n.) A bargain; profit; gain.

Chevisance (n.) A making of contracts.

Chevisance (n.) A bargain or contract; an agreement about a matter in dispute, such as a debt; a business compact.

Chevisance (n.) An unlawful agreement or contract.

Chevrette (n.) A machine for raising guns or mortar into their carriages.

Chevron (n.) One of the nine honorable ordinaries, consisting of two broad bands of the width of the bar, issuing, respectively from the dexter and sinister bases of the field and conjoined at its center.

Chevron (n.) A distinguishing mark, above the elbow, on the sleeve of a non-commissioned officer's coat.

Chevron (n.) A zigzag molding, or group of moldings, common in Norman architecture.

Chevroned (p. a.) Having a chevron; decorated with an ornamental figure of a zigzag from.

Chevronel (n.) A bearing like a chevron, but of only half its width.

Chevronwise (adv.) In the manner of a chevron; as, the field may be divided chevronwise.

Chevrotain (n.) A small ruminant of the family Tragulidae a allied to the musk deer. It inhabits Africa and the East Indies. See Kanchil.

Chevy (v. t.) See Chivy, v. t.

Chewed (imp. & p. p.) of Chew

Chewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chew

Chew (v. t.) To bite and grind with the teeth; to masticate.

Chew (v. t.) To ruminate mentally; to meditate on.

Chew (v. i.) To perform the action of biting and grinding with the teeth; to ruminate; to meditate.

Chew (n.) That which is chewed; that which is held in the mouth at once; a cud.

Chewer (n.) One who chews.

Chewet (n.) A kind of meat pie.

Chewink (n.) An american bird (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) of the Finch family, so called from its note; -- called also towhee bunting and ground robin.

Cheyennes (n. pl.) A warlike tribe of indians, related to the blackfeet, formerly inhabiting the region of Wyoming, but now mostly on reservations in the Indian Territory. They are noted for their horsemanship.

Chian (a.) Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the Aegean Sea.

Chiaroscurist (n.) A painter who cares for and studies light and shade rather than color.

Chiaroscuro (n.) Alt. of Chiaro-oscuro

Chiaro-oscuro (n.) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color.

Chiaro-oscuro (n.) The art or practice of so arranging the light and dark parts as to produce a harmonious effect. Cf. Clair-obscur.

Chiasm (n.) Alt. of Chiasma

Chiasma (n.) A commissure; especially, the optic commissure, or crucial union of the optic nerves.

Chiasmus (n.) An inversion of the order of words or phrases, when repeated or subsequently referred to in a sentence

Chiastolite (n.) A variety of andalusite; -- called also macle. The tessellated appearance of a cross section is due to the symmetrical arrangement of impurities in the crystal.

Chibbal (n.) See Cibol.

Chibouque (n.) Alt. of Chibouk

Chibouk (n.) A Turkish pipe, usually with a mouthpiece of amber, a stem, four or five feet long and not pliant, of some valuable wood, and a bowl of baked clay.

Chic (n.) Good form; style.

Chica (n.) A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, used by some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin.

Chica (n.) A fermented liquor or beer made in South American from a decoction of maize.

Chica (n.) A popular Moorish, Spanish, and South American dance, said to be the original of the fandango, etc.

Chicane (n.) The use of artful subterfuge, designed to draw away attention from the merits of a case or question; -- specifically applied to legal proceedings; trickery; chicanery; caviling; sophistry.

Chicane (n.) To use shifts, cavils, or artifices.

Chicaner (n.) One who uses chicanery.

Chicanery (n.) Mean or unfair artifice to perplex a cause and obscure the truth; stratagem; sharp practice; sophistry.

Chiccory (n.) See Chicory.

Chiches (pl. ) of Chich

Chich (n.) The chick-pea.

Chicha (n.) See Chica.

Chichevache (n.) A fabulous cow of enormous size, whose food was patient wives, and which was therefore in very lean condition.

Chichling (n.) Alt. of Chichling vetch

Chichling vetch (n.) A leguminous plant (Lathyrus sativus), with broad flattened seeds which are sometimes used for food.

Chick (v. i.) To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate.

Chick (n.) A chicken.

Chick (n.) A child or young person; -- a term of endearment.

Chickabiddy (n.) A chicken; a fowl; also, a trivial term of endearment for a child.

Chickadee (n.) A small bird, the blackcap titmouse (Parus atricapillus), of North America; -- named from its note.

Chickaree (n.) The American red squirrel (Sciurus Hudsonius); -- so called from its cry.

Chickasaws (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian) allied to the Choctaws. They formerly occupied the northern part of Alabama and Mississippi, but now live in the Indian Territory.

Chicken (n.) A young bird or fowl, esp. a young barnyard fowl.

Chicken (n.) A young person; a child; esp. a young woman; a maiden.

Chicken-breasted (a.) Having a narrow, projecting chest, caused by forward curvature of the vertebral column.

Chicken-hearted (a.) Timid; fearful; cowardly.

Chicken pox () A mild, eruptive disease, generally attacking children only; varicella.

Chickling (n.) A small chick or chicken.

Chick-pea (n.) A Small leguminous plant (Cicer arietinum) of Asia, Africa, and the south of Europe; the chich; the dwarf pea; the gram.

Chick-pea (n.) Its nutritious seed, used in cookery, and especially, when roasted (parched pulse), as food for travelers in the Eastern deserts.

Chickweed (n.) The name of several caryophyllaceous weeds, especially Stellaria media, the seeds and flower buds of which are a favorite food of small birds.

Chicky (n.) A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially in calling fowls.

Chicory (n.) A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with bright blue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; also cultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive. See Endive.

Chicory (n.) The root, which is roasted for mixing with coffee.

Chide (p. pr. & vb. n.) To rebuke; to reprove; to scold; to find fault with.

Chide (p. pr. & vb. n.) Fig.: To be noisy about; to chafe against.

Chide (v. i.) To utter words of disapprobation and displeasure; to find fault; to contend angrily.

Chide (v. i.) To make a clamorous noise; to chafe.

Chide (n.) A continuous noise or murmur.

Chider (n.) One who chides or quarrels.

Chideress (n.) She who chides.

Chidester (n.) A female scold.

Chidingly (adv.) In a chiding or reproving manner.

Chief (n.) The head or leader of any body of men; a commander, as of an army; a head man, as of a tribe, clan, or family; a person in authority who directs the work of others; the principal actor or agent.

Chief (n.) The principal part; the most valuable portion.

Chief (n.) The upper third part of the field. It is supposed to be composed of the dexter, sinister, and middle chiefs.

Chief (a.) Highest in office or rank; principal; head.

Chief (a.) Principal or most eminent in any quality or action; most distinguished; having most influence; taking the lead; most important; as, the chief topic of conversation; the chief interest of man.

Chief (a.) Very intimate, near, or close.

Chiefage (n.) A tribute by the head; a capitation tax.

Chief baron () The presiding judge of the court of exchequer.

Chiefest (a.) First or foremost; chief; principal.

Chief hare () A small rodent (Lagamys princeps) inhabiting the summits of the Rocky Mountains; -- also called crying hare, calling hare, cony, American pika, and little chief hare.

Chief justice () The presiding justice, or principal judge, of a court.

Chief-justiceship (n.) The office of chief justice.

Chiefless (a.) Without a chief or leader.

Chiefly (adv.) In the first place; principally; preeminently; above; especially.

Chiefly (adv.) For the most part; mostly.

Chiefrie (n.) A small rent paid to the lord paramount.

Chieftain (n.) A captain, leader, or commander; a chief; the head of a troop, army, or clan.

Chieftaincy (n.) Alt. of Chieftainship

Chieftainship (n.) The rank, dignity, or office of a chieftain.

Chierte (n.) Love; tender regard.

Chievance (n.) An unlawful bargain; traffic in which money is exported as discount.

Chieve (v. i.) See Cheve, v. i.

Chiff-chaff (n.) A species of European warbler (Sylvia hippolais); -- called also chip-chap, and pettychaps.

Chiffonier (n.) Alt. of niere

Chiffo (n.) Alt. of niere

niere (n.) One who gathers rags and odds and ends; a ragpicker.

niere (n.) A receptacle for rags or shreds.

niere (n.) A movable and ornamental closet or piece of furniture with shelves or drawers.

Chignon (n.) A knot, boss, or mass of hair, natural or artificial, worn by a woman at the back of the head.

Chigoe (n.) Alt. of Chigre

Chigre (n.) A species of flea (Pulex penetrans), common in the West Indies and South America, which often attacks the feet or any exposed part of the human body, and burrowing beneath the skin produces great irritation. When the female is allowed to remain and breed, troublesome sores result, which are sometimes dangerous. See Jigger.

Chikara (n.) The goat antelope (Tragops Bennettii) of India.

Chikara (n.) The Indian four-horned antelope (Tetraceros quadricornis).

Chilblain (n.) A blain, sore, or inflammatory swelling, produced by exposure of the feet or hands to cold, and attended by itching, pain, and sometimes ulceration.

Chilblain (v. t.) To produce chilblains upon.

Children (pl. ) of Child

Child (n.) A son or a daughter; a male or female descendant, in the first degree; the immediate progeny of human parents; -- in law, legitimate offspring. Used also of animals and plants.

Child (n.) A descendant, however remote; -- used esp. in the plural; as, the children of Israel; the children of Edom.

Child (n.) One who, by character of practice, shows signs of relationship to, or of the influence of, another; one closely connected with a place, occupation, character, etc.; as, a child of God; a child of the devil; a child of disobedience; a child of toil; a child of the people.

Child (n.) A noble youth. See Childe.

Child (n.) A young person of either sex. esp. one between infancy and youth; hence, one who exhibits the characteristics of a very young person, as innocence, obedience, trustfulness, limited understanding, etc.

Child (n.) A female infant.

Childed (imp. & p. p.) of Child

Childing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Child

Child (v. i.) To give birth; to produce young.

Childbearing (n.) The act of producing or bringing forth children; parturition.

Childbed (n.) The state of a woman bringing forth a child, or being in labor; parturition.

Childbirth (n.) The act of bringing forth a child; travail; labor.

Childcrowing (n.) The crowing noise made by children affected with spasm of the laryngeal muscles; false croup.

Childe (n.) A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son, until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as, Childe Roland.

Childed (a.) Furnished with a child.

Childermas day () A day (December 28) observed by mass or festival in commemoration of the children slain by Herod at Bethlehem; -- called also Holy Innocent's Day.

Childhood (n.) The state of being a child; the time in which persons are children; the condition or time from infancy to puberty.

Childhood (n.) Children, taken collectively.

Childhood (n.) The commencement; the first period.

Childing (v. i.) Bearing Children; (Fig.) productive; fruitful.

Childish (a.) Of, pertaining to, befitting, or resembling, a child.

Childish (a.) Puerile; trifling; weak.

Childishly (adv.) In the manner of a child; in a trifling way; in a weak or foolish manner.

Childishness (n.) The state or quality of being childish; simplicity; harmlessness; weakness of intellect.

Childlessness (n.) The state of being childless.

Childlike (a.) Resembling a child, or that which belongs to children; becoming a child; meek; submissive; dutiful.

Childly (a.) Having the character of a child; belonging, or appropriate, to a child.

Childly (adv.) Like a child.

Childness (n.) The manner characteristic of a child.

Children (n.) pl. of Child.

Childship (n.) The state or relation of being a child.

Chili (n.) A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum

Chiliad (n.) A thousand; the aggregate of a thousand things; especially, a period of a thousand years.

Chiliagon (n.) A plane figure of a thousand angles and sides.

Chiliahedron (n.) A figure bounded by a thousand plane surfaces

Chilian (a.) Of or pertaining to Chili.

Chilian (n.) A native or citizen of Chili.

Chilian (n.) Alt. of Chiliarch

Chiliarch (n.) The commander or chief of a thousand men.

Chiliarchy (n.) A body consisting of a thousand men.

Chiliasm (n.) The millennium.

Chiliasm (n.) The doctrine of the personal reign of Christ on earth during the millennium.

Chiliast (n.) One who believes in the second coming of Christ to reign on earth a thousand years; a milllenarian.

Chiliastic (a.) Millenarian.

Chill (n.) A moderate but disagreeable degree of cold; a disagreeable sensation of coolness, accompanied with shivering.

Chill (n.) A sensation of cold with convulsive shaking of the body, pinched face, pale skin, and blue lips, caused by undue cooling of the body or by nervous excitement, or forming the precursor of some constitutional disturbance, as of a fever.

Chill (n.) A check to enthusiasm or warmth of feeling; discouragement; as, a chill comes over an assembly.

Chill (n.) An iron mold or portion of a mold, serving to cool rapidly, and so to harden, the surface of molten iron brought in contact with it.

Chill (n.) The hardened part of a casting, as the tread of a car wheel.

Chill (a.) Moderately cold; tending to cause shivering; chilly; raw.

Chill (a.) Affected by cold.

Chill (a.) Characterized by coolness of manner, feeling, etc.; lacking enthusiasm or warmth; formal; distant; as, a chill reception.

Chill (a.) Discouraging; depressing; dispiriting.

Chilled (imp. & p. p.) of Chill

Chilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chill

Chill (v. t.) To strike with a chill; to make chilly; to cause to shiver; to affect with cold.

Chill (v. t.) To check enthusiasm or warmth of feeling of; to depress; to discourage.

Chill (v. t.) To produce, by sudden cooling, a change of crystallization at or near the surface of, so as to increase the hardness; said of cast iron.

Chill (v. i.) To become surface-hardened by sudden cooling while solidifying; as, some kinds of cast iron chill to a greater depth than others.

Chilled (a.) Hardened on the surface or edge by chilling; as, chilled iron; a chilled wheel.

Chilled (a.) Having that cloudiness or dimness of surface that is called blooming.

Chilli (n.) See Chili.

Chilliness (n.) A state or sensation of being chilly; a disagreeable sensation of coldness.

Chilliness (n.) A moderate degree of coldness; disagreeable coldness or rawness; as, the chilliness of the air.

Chilliness (n.) Formality; lack of warmth.

Chilling (a.) Making chilly or cold; depressing; discouraging; cold; distant; as, a chilling breeze; a chilling manner.

Chillness (n.) Coolness; coldness; a chill.

Chilly (a.) Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering; causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering.

Chilognath (n.) A myriapod of the order Chilognatha.

Chilognatha (n. pl.) One of the two principal orders of myriapods. They have numerous segments, each bearing two pairs of small, slender legs, which are attached ventrally, near together.

Chiloma (n.) The tumid upper lip of certain mammals, as of a camel.

Chilopod (n.) A myriapod of the order Chilopoda.

Chilopoda (n. pl.) One of the orders of myriapods, including the centipeds. They have a single pair of elongated legs attached laterally to each segment; well developed jaws; and a pair of thoracic legs converted into poison fangs. They are insectivorous, very active, and some species grow to the length of a foot.

Chilostoma (n. pl.) Alt. of Chilostomata

Chilostomata (n. pl.) An extensive suborder of marine Bryozoa, mostly with calcareous shells. They have a movable lip and a lid to close the aperture of the cells.

Chilostomatous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chilostoma.

Chiltern Hundreds () A tract of crown land in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, England, to which is attached the nominal office of steward. As members of Parliament cannot resign, when they wish to go out they accept this stewardship, which legally vacates their seats.

Chimaera (n.) A cartilaginous fish of several species, belonging to the order Holocephali. The teeth are few and large. The head is furnished with appendages, and the tail terminates in a point.

Chimaeroid (a.) Related to, or like, the chimaera.

Chimango () A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). See Caracara.

Chimb (n.) The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3.

Chimb (v. i.) Chime.

Chime (n.) See Chine, n., 3.

Chime (n.) The harmonious sound of bells, or of musical instruments.

Chime (n.) A set of bells musically tuned to each other; specif., in the pl., the music performed on such a set of bells by hand, or produced by mechanism to accompany the striking of the hours or their divisions.

Chime (n.) Pleasing correspondence of proportion, relation, or sound.

Chimed (imp. & p. p.) of Chime

Chiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chime

Chime (n.) To sound in harmonious accord, as bells.

Chime (n.) To be in harmony; to agree; to suit; to harmonize; to correspond; to fall in with.

Chime (n.) To join in a conversation; to express assent; -- followed by in or in with.

Chime (n.) To make a rude correspondence of sounds; to jingle, as in rhyming.

Chime (v. i.) To cause to sound in harmony; to play a tune, as upon a set of bells; to move or strike in harmony.

Chime (v. i.) To utter harmoniously; to recite rhythmically.

Chimer (n.) One who chimes.

Chimeras (pl. ) of Chimera

Chimera (n.) A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon.

Chimera (n.) A vain, foolish, or incongruous fancy, or creature of the imagination; as, the chimera of an author.

Chimere (n.) The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves are usually attached.

Chimeric (a.) Chimerical.

Chimerical (a.) Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainly conceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except in thought; as, chimerical projects.

Chimerically (adv.) Wildy; vainly; fancifully.

Chiminage (n.) A toll for passage through a forest.

Chimneys (pl. ) of Chimney

Chimney (n.) A fireplace or hearth.

Chimney (n.) That part of a building which contains the smoke flues; esp. an upright tube or flue of brick or stone, in most cases extending through or above the roof of the building. Often used instead of chimney shaft.

Chimney (n.) A tube usually of glass, placed around a flame, as of a lamp, to create a draft, and promote combustion.

Chimney (n.) A body of ore, usually of elongated form, extending downward in a vein.

Chimney-breast (n.) The horizontal projection of a chimney from the wall in which it is built; -- commonly applied to its projection in the inside of a building only.

Chimney-piece (n.) A decorative construction around the opening of a fireplace.

Chimpanzee (n.) An african ape (Anthropithecus troglodytes or Troglodytes niger) which approaches more nearly to man, in most respects, than any other ape. When full grown, it is from three to four feet high.

Chin (n.) The lower extremity of the face below the mouth; the point of the under jaw.

Chin (n.) The exterior or under surface embraced between the branches of the lower jaw bone, in birds.

China (n.) A country in Eastern Asia.

China (n.) China ware, which is the modern popular term for porcelain. See Porcelain.

Chinaldine (n.) See Quinaldine.

Chinamen (pl. ) of Chinaman

Chinaman (n.) A native of China; a Chinese.

Chincapin (n.) See Chinquapin.

Chinch (n.) The bedbug (Cimex lectularius).

Chinch (n.) A bug (Blissus leucopterus), which, in the United States, is very destructive to grass, wheat, and other grains; -- also called chiniz, chinch bug, chink bug. It resembles the bedbug in its disgusting odor.

Chincha (n.) A south American rodent of the genus Lagotis.

Chinche (a.) Parsimonious; niggardly.

Chincherie (n.) Penuriousness.

Chinchilla (n.) A small rodent (Chinchilla lanigera), of the size of a large squirrel, remarkable for its fine fur, which is very soft and of a pearly gray color. It is a native of Peru and Chili.

Chinchilla (n.) The fur of the chinchilla.

Chinchilla (n.) A heavy, long-napped, tufted woolen cloth.

Chinchona () Alt. of Chincona

Chincona () See Cinchona.

Chin cough () Whooping cough.

Chine (n.) A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chine in the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep.

Chine (n.) The backbone or spine of an animal; the back.

Chine (n.) A piece of the backbone of an animal, with the adjoining parts, cut for cooking. [See Illust. of Beef.]

Chine (n.) The edge or rim of a cask, etc., formed by the projecting ends of the staves; the chamfered end of a stave.

Chined (imp. & p. p.) of Chine

Chine (v. t.) To cut through the backbone of; to cut into chine pieces.

Chine (v. t.) Too chamfer the ends of a stave and form the chine..

Chined (a.) Pertaining to, or having, a chine, or backbone; -- used in composition.

Chined (a.) Broken in the back.

Chinese (a.) Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China.

Chinese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of China, or one of that yellow race with oblique eyelids who live principally in China.

Chinese (n. sing. & pl.) The language of China, which is monosyllabic.

Chink (n.) A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length than breadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall.

Chinked (imp. & p. p.) of Chink

Chinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chink

Chink (v. i.) To crack; to open.

Chink (v. t.) To cause to open in cracks or fissures.

Chink (v. t.) To fill up the chinks of; as, to chink a wall.

Chink (n.) A short, sharp sound, as of metal struck with a slight degree of violence.

Chink (n.) Money; cash.

Chink (v. t.) To cause to make a sharp metallic sound, as coins, small pieces of metal, etc., by bringing them into collision with each other.

Chink (v. i.) To make a slight, sharp, metallic sound, as by the collision of little pieces of money, or other small sonorous bodies.

Chinky (a.) Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.

Chinned (a.) Having a chin; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, short-chinned.

Chinoidine (n.) See Quinodine.

Chinoline (n.) See Quinoline.

Chinone (n.) See Quinone.

Chinook (n.) One of a tribe of North American Indians now living in the state of Washington, noted for the custom of flattening their skulls. Chinooks also called Flathead Indians.

Chinook (n.) A warm westerly wind from the country of the Chinooks, sometimes experienced on the slope of the Rocky Mountains, in Montana and the adjacent territory.

Chinook (n.) A jargon of words from various languages (the largest proportion of which is from that of the Chinooks) generally understood by all the Indian tribes of the northwestern territories of the United States.

Chinquapin (n.) A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) of North America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut. Also, its small, sweet, edible nat.

Chinsed (imp. & p. p.) of Chinse

Chinsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chinse

Chinse (v. t. & i.) To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel , the point of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly.

Chintzes (pl. ) of Chintz

Chintz (n.) Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in a number of different colors, and often glazed.

Chioppine (n.) Same as Chopine, n.

Chipped (imp. & p. p.) of Chip

Chipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chip

Chip (v. t.) To cut small pieces from; to diminish or reduce to shape, by cutting away a little at a time; to hew.

Chip (v. t.) To break or crack, or crack off a portion of, as of an eggshell in hatching, or a piece of crockery.

Chip (v. t.) To bet, as with chips in the game of poker.

Chip (v. i.) To break or fly off in small pieces.

Chip (n.) A piece of wood, stone, or other substance, separated by an ax, chisel, or cutting instrument.

Chip (n.) A fragment or piece broken off; a small piece.

Chip (n.) Wood or Cuban palm leaf split into slips, or straw plaited in a special manner, for making hats or bonnets.

Chip (n.) Anything dried up, withered, or without flavor; -- used contemptuously.

Chip (n.) One of the counters used in poker and other games.

Chip (n.) The triangular piece of wood attached to the log line.

Chipmunk (n.) A squirrel-like animal of the genus Tamias, sometimes called the striped squirrel, chipping squirrel, ground squirrel, hackee. The common species of the United States is the Tamias striatus.

Chipper (v. i.) To chirp or chirrup.

Chipper (a.) Lively; cheerful; talkative.

Chippeways (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern and western shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways.

Chipping (n.) A chip; a piece separated by a cutting or graving instrument; a fragment.

Chipping (n.) The act or process of cutting or breaking off small pieces, as in dressing iron with a chisel, or reducing a timber or block of stone to shape.

Chipping (n.) The breaking off in small pieces of the edges of potter's ware, porcelain, etc.

Chipping bird () The chippy.

Chipping squirrel () See Chipmunk.

Chippy (a.) Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless.

Chippy (n.) A small American sparrow (Spizella socialis), very common near dwelling; -- also called chipping bird and chipping sparrow, from its simple note.

Chips (n.) A ship's carpenter.

Chiragra (n.) Gout in the hand.

Chiragrical (a.) Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease.

Chiretta (n.) A plant (Agathotes Chirayta) found in Northern India, having medicinal properties to the gentian, and esteemed as a tonic and febrifuge.

Chirk (v. i.) To shriek; to gnash; to utter harsh or shrill cries.

Chirk (v. i.) To chirp like a bird.

Chirk (v. t.) To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up.

Chirk (v. i.) Lively; cheerful; in good spirits.

Chirm (v. i.) To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird.

Chirognomy (n.) The art of judging character by the shape and appearance of the hand.

Chirograph (n.) A writing which, requiring a counterpart, was engrossed twice on the same piece of parchment, with a space between, in which was written the word chirographum, through which the parchment was cut, and one part given to each party. It answered to what is now called a charter party.

Chirograph (n.) The last part of a fine of land, commonly called the foot of the fine.

Chirographer (n.) One who practice the art or business of writing or engrossing.

Chirographer (n.) See chirographist, 2.

Chirographic (a.) Alt. of Chirographical

Chirographical (a.) Of or pertaining to chirography.

Chirographist (n.) A chirographer; a writer or engrosser.

Chirographist (n.) One who tells fortunes by examining the hand.

Chirography (n.) The art of writing or engrossing; handwriting; as, skilled in chirography.

Chirography (n.) The art of telling fortunes by examining the hand.

Chirogymnast (n.) A mechanical contrivance for exercising the fingers of a pianist.

Chirological (a.) Relating to chirology.

Chirologist (n.) One who communicates thoughts by signs made with the hands and fingers.

Chirology (n.) The art or practice of using the manual alphabet or of communicating thoughts by sings made by the hands and fingers; a substitute for spoken or written language in intercourse with the deaf and dumb. See Dactylalogy.

Chiromancer (n.) One who practices chiromancy.

Chiromancy (n.) The art or practice of foretelling events, or of telling the fortunes or the disposition of persons by inspecting the hand; palmistry.

Chiromanist (n.) Alt. of Chiromantist

Chiromantist (n.) A chiromancer.

Chiromantic (a.) Alt. of Chiromantical

Chiromantical (a.) Of or pertaining to chiromancy.

Chiromonic (a.) Relating to chironomy.

Chironomy (n.) The art of moving the hands in oratory or in pantomime; gesture

Chiroplast (n.) An instrument to guid the hands and fingers of pupils in playing on the piano, etc.

Chiropodist (n.) One who treats diseases of the hands and feet; especially, one who removes corns and bunions.

Chiropody (n.) The art of treating diseases of the hands and feet.

Chirosophist (n.) A fortune teller.

Chirped (imp. & p. p.) of Chirp

Chirping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chirp

Chirp (v. i.) To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets.

Chirp (n.) A short, sharp note, as of a bird or insect.

Chirper (n.) One who chirps, or is cheerful.

Chirping (a.) Cheering; enlivening.

Chirpingly (adv.) In a chirping manner.

Chirre (v. i.) To coo, as a pigeon.

Chirruped (imp. & p. p.) of Chirrup

Chirruping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chirrup

Chirrup (v. t.) To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup.

Chirrup (v. i.) To chirp.

Chirrup (n.) The act of chirping; a chirp.

Chirrupy (a.) Cheerful; joyous; chatty.

Chirurgeon (n.) A surgeon.

Chirurgeonly (adv.) Surgically.

Chirurgery (n.) Surgery.

Chirurgic (a.) Alt. of Chirurgical

Chirurgical (a.) Surgical

Chisel (n.) A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; -- usually driven by a mallet or hammer.

Chiseled (imp. & p. p.) of Chisel

Chiselled () of Chisel

Chiseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chisel

Chiselling () of Chisel

Chisel (v. t.) To cut, pare, gouge, or engrave with a chisel; as, to chisel a block of marble into a statue.

Chisel (v. t.) To cut close, as in a bargain; to cheat.

Chisleu (n.) The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of November with a part of December.

Chisley (a.) Having a large admixture of small pebbles or gravel; -- said of a soil.

Chit (n.) The embryo or the growing bud of a plant; a shoot; a sprout; as, the chits of Indian corn or of potatoes.

Chit (n.) A child or babe; as, a forward chit; also, a young, small, or insignificant person or animal.

Chit (n.) An excrescence on the body, as a wart.

Chit (n.) A small tool used in cleaving laths.

Chit (v. i.) To shoot out; to sprout.

Chit (3d sing.) Chideth.

Chitchat (n.) Familiar or trifling talk; prattle.

Chitin (n.) A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other invertebrates; entomolin.

Chitinization (n.) The process of becoming chitinous.

Chitinous (a.) Having the nature of chitin; consisting of, or containing, chitin.

Chiton (n.) An under garment among the ancient Greeks, nearly representing the modern shirt.

Chiton (n.) One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed of eight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora.

Chitter (v. i.) To chirp in a tremulous manner, as a bird.

Chitter (v. i.) To shiver or chatter with cold.

Chitterling (n.) The frill to the breast of a shirt, which when ironed out resembled the small entrails. See Chitterlings.

Chitterlings (n. pl.) The smaller intestines of swine, etc., fried for food.

Chittra (n.) The axis deer of India.

Chitty (a.) Full of chits or sprouts.

Chitty (a.) Childish; like a babe.

Chivachie (n.) A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition.

Chivalric (a.) Relating to chivalry; knightly; chivalrous.

Chivalrous (a.) Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic; gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous.

Chivalrously (adv.) In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.

Chivalry (n.) A body or order of cavaliers or knights serving on horseback; illustrious warriors, collectively; cavalry.

Chivalry (n.) The dignity or system of knighthood; the spirit, usages, or manners of knighthood; the practice of knight-errantry.

Chivalry (n.) The qualifications or character of knights, as valor, dexterity in arms, courtesy, etc.

Chivalry (n.) A tenure of lands by knight's service; that is, by the condition of a knight's performing service on horseback, or of performing some noble or military service to his lord.

Chivalry (n.) Exploit.

Chive (n.) A filament of a stamen.

Chive (n.) A perennial plant (Allium Schoenoprasum), allied to the onion. The young leaves are used in omelets, etc.

Chivied (imp. & p. p.) of Chivy

Chivying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chivy

Chivy (v. t.) To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch.

Chlamydate (a.) Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods.

Chlamyphore (n.) A small South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus, and C. retusus) allied to the armadillo. It is covered with a leathery shell or coat of mail, like a cloak, attached along the spine.

Chlamyses (pl. ) of Chlamys

Chlamydes (pl. ) of Chlamys

Chlamys (n.) A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks; a kind of cloak.

Chloasma (n.) A cutaneous affection characterized by yellow or yellowish brown pigmented spots.

Chloral (n.) A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harsh taste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethyl alcohol.

Chloral (n.) Chloral hydrate.

Chloralamide (n.) A compound of chloral and formic amide used to produce sleep.

Chloralism (n.) A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive use of chloral.

Chloralum (n.) An impure aqueous solution of chloride of aluminium, used as an antiseptic and disinfectant.

Chloranil (n.) A yellow crystalline substance, C6Cl4.O2, regarded as a derivative of quinone, obtained by the action of chlorine on certain benzene derivatives, as aniline.

Chlorate (n.) A salt of chloric acid; as, chlorate of potassium.

Chloraurate (n.) See Aurochloride.

Chlorhydric (a.) Same as Hydrochloric.

Chlorhydrin (n.) One of a class of compounds formed from certain polybasic alcohols (and especially glycerin) by the substitution of chlorine for one or more hydroxyl groups.

Chloric (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, chlorine; -- said of those compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, chloric acid, HClO3.

Chloridate (v. t.) To treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chloride of silver, for the purposes of photography.

Chloride (n.) A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical; as, chloride of sodium (common salt).

Chloridic (a.) Of or pertaining to a chloride; containing a chloride.

Chloridize (v. t.) See Chloridate.

Chlorimetry (n.) See Chlorometry.

Chlorinated (imp. & p. p.) of Chlorinate

Chlorinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chlorinate

Chlorinate (v. t.) To treat, or cause to combine, with chlorine.

Chlorination (n.) The act or process of subjecting anything to the action of chlorine; especially, a process for the extraction of gold by exposure of the auriferous material to chlorine gas.

Chlorine (n.) One of the elementary substances, commonly isolated as a greenish yellow gas, two and one half times as heavy as air, of an intensely disagreeable suffocating odor, and exceedingly poisonous. It is abundant in nature, the most important compound being common salt. It is powerful oxidizing, bleaching, and disinfecting agent. Symbol Cl. Atomic weight, 35.4.

Chloriodic (a.) Compounded of chlorine and iodine; containing chlorine and iodine.

Chloriodine (n.) A compound of chlorine and iodine.

Chlorite (n.) The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color and micaceous to granular in structure. They are hydrous silicates of alumina, iron, and magnesia.

Chlorite (n.) Any salt of chlorous acid; as, chlorite of sodium.

Chloritic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, chlorite; as, chloritic sand.

Chlormethane (n.) A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to a liquid; -- called also methyl chloride.

Chloro- () A prefix denoting that chlorine is an ingredient in the substance named.

Chlorocruorin (n.) A green substance, supposed to be the cause of the green color of the blood in some species of worms.

Chlorodyne (n.) A patent anodyne medicine, containing opium, chloroform, Indian hemp, etc.

Chloroform (n.) A colorless volatile liquid, CHCl3, having an ethereal odor and a sweetish taste, formed by treating alcohol with chlorine and an alkali. It is a powerful solvent of wax, resin, etc., and is extensively used to produce anaesthesia in surgical operations; also externally, to alleviate pain.

Chloroformed (imp. & p. p.) of Chloroform

Chloroforming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chloroform

Chloroform (v. t.) To treat with chloroform, or to place under its influence.

Chloroleucite (n.) Same as Chloroplastid.

Chlorometer (n.) An instrument to test the decoloring or bleaching power of chloride of lime.

Chlorometry (n.) The process of testing the bleaching power of any combination of chlorine.

Chloropal (n.) A massive mineral, greenish in color, and opal-like in appearance. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of iron.

Chloropeptic (a.) Of or pertaining to an acid more generally called pepsin-hydrochloric acid.

Chlorophane (n.) A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautiful emerald green light.

Chlorophane (n.) The yellowish green pigment in the inner segment of the cones of the retina. See Chromophane.

Chlorophyll (n.) Literally, leaf green; a green granular matter formed in the cells of the leaves (and other parts exposed to light) of plants, to which they owe their green color, and through which all ordinary assimilation of plant food takes place. Similar chlorophyll granules have been found in the tissues of the lower animals.

Chloroplastid (n.) A granule of chlorophyll; -- also called chloroleucite.

Chloroplatinic (a.) See Platinichloric.

Chlorosis (n.) The green sickness; an anaemic disease of young women, characterized by a greenish or grayish yellow hue of the skin, weakness, palpitation, etc.

Chlorosis (n.) A disease in plants, causing the flowers to turn green or the leaves to lose their normal green color.

Chlorotic (a.) Pertaining to, or affected by, chlorosis.

Chlorous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine; -- said of those compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of three, the next lower than in chloric compounds; as, chlorous acid, HClO2.

Chlorous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the electro-negative character of chlorine; hence, electro-negative; -- opposed to basylous or zincous.

Chlorpicrin (n.) A heavy, colorless liquid, CCl3.NO2, of a strong pungent odor, obtained by subjecting picric acid to the action of chlorine.

Chloruret (n.) A chloride.

Choak (v. t. & i.) See Choke.

Choanoid (a.) Funnel-shaped; -- applied particularly to a hollow muscle attached to the ball of the eye in many reptiles and mammals.

Chocard (n.) The chough.

Chocked (imp. & p. p.) of Chock

Chocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chock

Chock (v. t.) To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, to chock a wheel or cask.

Chock (v. i.) To fill up, as a cavity.

Chock (n.) A wedge, or block made to fit in any space which it is desired to fill, esp. something to steady a cask or other body, or prevent it from moving, by fitting into the space around or beneath it.

Chock (n.) A heavy casting of metal, usually fixed near the gunwale. It has two short horn-shaped arms curving inward, between which ropes or hawsers may pass for towing, mooring, etc.

Chock (adv.) Entirely; quite; as, chock home; chock aft.

Chock (v. t.) To encounter.

Chock (n.) An encounter.

Chockablock (a.) Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought close together, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.

Chock-full (a.) Quite full; choke-full.

Chocolate (n.) A paste or cake composed of the roasted seeds of the Theobroma Cacao ground and mixed with other ingredients, usually sugar, and cinnamon or vanilla.

Chocolate (n.) The beverage made by dissolving a portion of the paste or cake in boiling water or milk.

Choctaws (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian), in early times noted for their pursuit of agriculture, and for living at peace with the white settlers. They are now one of the civilized tribes of the Indian Territory.

Chode () the old imp. of chide. See Chide.

Chogset (n.) See Cunner.

Choice (n.) Act of choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from two or more things that which is preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring one thing to another; election.

Choice (n.) The power or opportunity of choosing; option.

Choice (n.) Care in selecting; judgment or skill in distinguishing what is to be preferred, and in giving a preference; discrimination.

Choice (n.) A sufficient number to choose among.

Choice (n.) The thing or person chosen; that which is approved and selected in preference to others; selection.

Choice (n.) The best part; that which is preferable.

Choice (superl.) Worthly of being chosen or preferred; select; superior; precious; valuable.

Choice (superl.) Preserving or using with care, as valuable; frugal; -- used with of; as, to be choice of time, or of money.

Choice (superl.) Selected with care, and due attention to preference; deliberately chosen.

Choiceful (a.) Making choices; fickle.

Choicely (adv.) With care in choosing; with nice regard to preference.

Choicely (adv.) In a preferable or excellent manner; excellently; eminently.

Choiceness (n.) The quality of being of particular value or worth; nicely; excellence.

Choir (n.) A band or organized company of singers, especially in church service.

Choir (n.) That part of a church appropriated to the singers.

Choir (n.) The chancel.

Choked (imp. & p. p.) of Choke

Choking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Choke

Choke (v. t.) To render unable to breathe by filling, pressing upon, or squeezing the windpipe; to stifle; to suffocate; to strangle.

Choke (v. t.) To obstruct by filling up or clogging any passage; to block up.

Choke (v. t.) To hinder or check, as growth, expansion, progress, etc.; to stifle.

Choke (v. t.) To affect with a sense of strangulation by passion or strong feeling.

Choke (v. t.) To make a choke, as in a cartridge, or in the bore of the barrel of a shotgun.

Choke (v. i.) To have the windpipe stopped; to have a spasm of the throat, caused by stoppage or irritation of the windpipe; to be strangled.

Choke (v. i.) To be checked, as if by choking; to stick.

Choke (n.) A stoppage or irritation of the windpipe, producing the feeling of strangulation.

Choke (n.) The tied end of a cartridge.

Choke (n.) A constriction in the bore of a shotgun, case of a rocket, etc.

Chokeberry (n.) The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an American shrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub.

Chokecherry (n.) The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (Prunus Virginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.

Choke damp () See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.

Chokedar (n.) A watchman; an officer of customs or police.

Choke-full (a.) Full to the brim; quite full; chock-full.

Choke pear () A kind of pear that has a rough, astringent taste, and is swallowed with difficulty, or which contracts the mucous membrane of the mouth.

Choke pear () A sarcasm by which one is put to silence; anything that can not be answered.

Choker (n.) One who, or that which, chokes.

Choker (n.) A stiff wide cravat; a stock.

Choke-strap (n.) A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of the collar, to keep the collar in place.

Choking (a.) That chokes; producing the feeling of strangulation.

Choking (a.) Indistinct in utterance, as the voice of a person affected with strong emotion.

Choky Chokey (a.) Tending to choke or suffocate, or having power to suffocate.

Choky Chokey (a.) Inclined to choke, as a person affected with strong emotion.

Cholaemaa (n.) A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependent upon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood.

Cholagogue (a.) Promoting the discharge of bile from the system.

Cholagogue (n.) An agent which promotes the discharge of bile from the system.

Cholate (n.) A salt of cholic acid; as, sodium cholate.

Cholecystis (n.) The gall bladder.

Cholecystotomy (n.) The operation of making an opening in the gall bladder, as for the removal of a gallstone.

Choledology (n.) A treatise on the bile and bilary organs.

Choleic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, bile; as, choleic acid.

Choler (n.) The bile; -- formerly supposed to be the seat and cause of irascibility.

Choler (n.) Irritation of the passions; anger; wrath.

Cholera (n.) One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinal tract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonly called Asiatic cholera.

Choleraic (a.) Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera.

Choleric (a.) Abounding with, or producing choler, or bile.

Choleric (a.) Easily irritated; irascible; inclined to anger.

Choleric (a.) Angry; indicating anger; excited by anger.

Cholericly (adv.) In a choleric manner; angrily.

Choleriform (a.) Resembling cholera.

Cholerine (n.) The precursory symptoms of cholera.

Cholerine (n.) The first stage of epidemic cholera.

Cholerine (n.) A mild form of cholera.

Choleroid (a.) Choleriform.

Cholesteric (a.) Pertaining to cholesterin, or obtained from it; as, cholesteric acid.

Cholesterin (n.) A white, fatty, crystalline substance, tasteless and odorless, found in animal and plant products and tissue, and especially in nerve tissue, in the bile, and in gallstones.

Choliamb (n.) Alt. of Choliambic

Choliambic (n.) A verse having an iambus in the fifth place, and a spondee in the sixth or last.

Cholic (a.) Alt. of Cholinic

Cholinic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the bile.

Choline (n.) See Neurine.

Cholochrome (n.) See Bilirubin.

Cholophaein (n.) See Bilirubin.

Choltry (n.) A Hindoo caravansary.

Chomp (v. i.) To chew loudly and greedily; to champ.

Chondrification (n.) Formation of, or conversion into, cartilage.

Chondrify (v. t. & i.) To convert, or be converted, into cartilage.

Chondrigen (n.) The chemical basis of cartilage, converted by long boiling in water into a gelatinous body called chondrin.

Chondrigenous (a.) Affording chondrin.

Chondrin (n.) A colorless, amorphous, nitrogenous substance, tasteless and odorless, formed from cartilaginous tissue by long-continued action of boiling water. It is similar to gelatin, and is a large ingredient of commercial gelatin.

Chondrite (n.) A meteoric stone characterized by the presence of chondrules.

Chondritic (a.) Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structure characteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites.

Chondritis (n.) An inflammation of cartilage.

Chondro- () A combining form meaning a grain, granular, granular cartilage, cartilaginous; as, the chondrocranium, the cartilaginous skull of the lower vertebrates and of embryos.

Chondrodite (n.) A fluosilicate of magnesia and iron, yellow to red in color, often occurring in granular form in a crystalline limestone.

Chondroganoidea (n.) An order of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so called on account of their cartilaginous skeleton.

Chondrogen (n.) Same as Chondrigen.

Chondrogenesis (n.) The development of cartilage.

Chondroid (a.) Resembling cartilage.

Chondrology (n.) The science which treats of cartilages.

Chondromata (pl. ) of Chondroma

Chondroma (n.) A cartilaginous tumor or growth.

Chondrometer (n.) A steelyard for weighting grain.

Chondropterygian (a.) Having a cartilaginous skeleton.

Chondropterygian (n.) One of the Chondropterygii.

Chondropterygii (n. pl.) A group of fishes, characterized by cartilaginous fins and skeleton. It includes both ganoids (sturgeons, etc.) and selachians (sharks), but is now often restricted to the latter.

Chondrostei (n. pl.) An order of fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so named because the skeleton is cartilaginous.

Chondrotomy (n.) The dissection of cartilages.

Chondrule (n.) A peculiar rounded granule of some mineral, usually enstatite or chrysolite, found imbedded more or less abundantly in the mass of many meteoric stones, which are hence called chondrites.

Chose (imp.) of Choose

Chosen (p. p.) of Choose

Chose () of Choose

Choosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Choose

Choose (v. t.) To make choice of; to select; to take by way of preference from two or more objects offered; to elect; as, to choose the least of two evils.

Choose (v. t.) To wish; to desire; to prefer.

Choose (v. i.) To make a selection; to decide.

Choose (v. i.) To do otherwise.

Chooser (n.) One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; an elector.

Chopped (imp. & p. p.) of Chop

Chopping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chop

Chop (v. t.) To cut by striking repeatedly with a sharp instrument; to cut into pieces; to mince; -- often with up.

Chop (v. t.) To sever or separate by one more blows of a sharp instrument; to divide; -- usually with off or down.

Chop (v. t.) To seize or devour greedily; -- with up.

Chop (v. i.) To make a quick strike, or repeated strokes, with an ax or other sharp instrument.

Chop (v. i.) To do something suddenly with an unexpected motion; to catch or attempt to seize.

Chop (v. i.) To interrupt; -- with in or out.

Chop (v. i.) To barter or truck.

Chop (v. i.) To exchange; substitute one thing for another.

Chop (v. i.) To purchase by way of truck.

Chop (v. i.) To vary or shift suddenly; as, the wind chops about.

Chop (v. i.) To wrangle; to altercate; to bandy words.

Chop (n.) A change; a vicissitude.

Chop (v. t. & i.) To crack. See Chap, v. t. & i.

Chop (n.) The act of chopping; a stroke.

Chop (n.) A piece chopped off; a slice or small piece, especially of meat; as, a mutton chop.

Chop (n.) A crack or cleft. See Chap.

Chop (n.) A jaw of an animal; -- commonly in the pl. See Chops.

Chop (n.) A movable jaw or cheek, as of a wooden vise.

Chop (n.) The land at each side of the mouth of a river, harbor, or channel; as, East Chop or West Chop. See Chops.

Chop (n.) Quality; brand; as, silk of the first chop.

Chop (n.) A permit or clearance.

Chopboat (n.) A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods to and from vessels.

Chopchurch (n.) An exchanger or an exchange of benefices.

Chopfallen (a.) Having the lower chop or jaw depressed; hence, crestfallen; dejected; dispirited; downcast. See Chapfallen.

Chophouse (n.) A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house.

Chophouse (n.) A customhouse where transit duties are levied.

Chopin (n.) A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain, varying from half a pint to a wine quart.

Chopin (n.) See Chopine.

Chopine (n.) A clog, or patten, having a very thick sole, or in some cases raised upon a stilt to a height of a foot or more.

Chop-logic (n.) One who bandies words or is very argumentative.

Chopness (n.) A kind of spade.

Chopper (n.) One who, or that which, chops.

Chopping (a.) Stout or plump; large.

Chopping (a.) Shifting or changing suddenly, as the wind; also, having tumbling waves dashing against each other; as, a chopping sea.

Chopping (n.) Act of cutting by strokes.

Choppy (a.) Full of cracks.

Choppy (a.) Rough, with short, tumultuous waves; as, a choppy sea.

Chops (n. pl.) The jaws; also, the fleshy parts about the mouth.

Chops (n. pl.) The sides or capes at the mouth of a river, channel, harbor, or bay; as, the chops of the English Channel.

Chopstick (n.) One of two small sticks of wood, ivory, etc., used by the Chinese and Japanese to convey food to the mouth.

Choragic (a.) Of or pertaining to a choragus.

Choragi (pl. ) of Choragus

Choragus (n.) A chorus leader; esp. one who provided at his own expense and under his own supervision one of the choruses for the musical contents at Athens.

Choral (a.) Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, or adapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony.

Choral (n.) A hymn tune; a simple sacred tune, sung in unison by the congregation; as, the Lutheran chorals.

Choralist (n.) A singer or composer of chorals.

Chorally (adv.) In the manner of a chorus; adapted to be sung by a choir; in harmony.

Chord (n.) The string of a musical instrument.

Chord (n.) A combination of tones simultaneously performed, producing more or less perfect harmony, as, the common chord.

Chord (n.) A right line uniting the extremities of the arc of a circle or curve.

Chord (n.) A cord. See Cord, n., 4.

Chord (n.) The upper or lower part of a truss, usually horizontal, resisting compression or tension.

Chorded (imp. & p. p.) of Chord

Chording (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chord

Chord (v. t.) To provide with musical chords or strings; to string; to tune.

Chord (v. i.) To accord; to harmonize together; as, this note chords with that.

Chorda (n.) A cord.

Chordal (a.) Of or pertaining to a chord.

Chordata (n. pl.) A comprehensive division of animals including all Vertebrata together with the Tunicata, or all those having a dorsal nervous cord.

Chordee (n.) A painful erection of the penis, usually with downward curvature, occurring in gonorrhea.

Chore (n.) A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of a household or farm, either within or without doors.

Chored (imp. & p. p.) of Chore

Choring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chore

Chore (v. i.) To do chores.

Chore (n.) A choir or chorus.

Chorea (n.) St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsive twitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs.

Choree (n.) See Choreus.

Choregraphic (a.) Alt. of Choregraphical

Choregraphical (a.) Pertaining to choregraphy.

Choregraphy (n.) The art of representing dancing by signs, as music is represented by notes.

Choreic (a.) Of the nature of, or pertaining to, chorea; convulsive.

Chorepiscopal (a.) Pertaining to a chorepiscopus or his change or authority.

Chorepiscopi (pl. ) of Chorepiscopus

Chorepiscopus (n.) A country or suffragan bishop, appointed in the ancient church by a diocesan bishop to exercise episcopal jurisdiction in a rural district.

Choreus (n.) Alt. of Choree

Choree (n.) a trochee.

Choree (n.) A tribrach.

Choriambs (pl. ) of Choriamb

Choriamb (n.) Same as Choriambus.

Choriambic (a.) Pertaining to a choriamb.

Choriambic (n.) A choriamb.

Choriambi (pl. ) of Choriambus

Choriambuses (pl. ) of Choriambus

Choriambus (n.) A foot consisting of four syllables, of which the first and last are long, and the other short (- ~ ~ -); that is, a choreus, or trochee, and an iambus united.

Choric (a.) Of or pertaining to a chorus.

Chorion (n.) The outer membrane which invests the fetus in the womb; also, the similar membrane investing many ova at certain stages of development.

Chorion (n.) The true skin, or cutis.

Chorion (n.) The outer membrane of seeds of plants.

Chorisis (n.) The separation of a leaf or floral organ into two more parts.

Chorist (n.) A singer in a choir; a chorister.

Chorister (n.) One of a choir; a singer in a chorus.

Chorister (n.) One who leads a choir in church music.

Choristic (a.) Choric; choral.

Chorograph (n.) An instrument for constructing triangles in marine surveying, etc.

Chorographer (n.) One who describes or makes a map of a district or region.

Chorographer (n.) A geographical antiquary; one who investigates the locality of ancient places.

Chorographical (a.) Pertaining to chorography.

Chorography (n.) the mapping or description of a region or district.

Choroid (a.) resembling the chorion; as, the choroid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain, and the choroid coat of the eyeball.

Choroid (n.) The choroid coat of the eye. See Eye.

Choroidal (a.) Pertaining to the choroid coat.

Chorology (n.) The science which treats of the laws of distribution of living organisms over the earth's surface as to latitude, altitude, locality, etc.

Chorometry (n.) The art of surveying a region or district.

Choruses (pl. ) of Chorus

Chorus (n.) A band of singers and dancers.

Chorus (n.) A company of persons supposed to behold what passed in the acts of a tragedy, and to sing the sentiments which the events suggested in couplets or verses between the acts; also, that which was thus sung by the chorus.

Chorus (n.) An interpreter in a dumb show or play.

Chorus (n.) A company of singers singing in concert.

Chorus (n.) A composition of two or more parts, each of which is intended to be sung by a number of voices.

Chorus (n.) Parts of a song or hymn recurring at intervals, as at the end of stanzas; also, a company of singers who join with the singer or choir in singer or choir in singing such parts.

Chorus (n.) The simultaneous of a company in any noisy demonstration; as, a Chorus of shouts and catcalls.

Chorused (imp. & p. p.) of Chorus

Chorusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chorus

Chorus (v. i.) To sing in chorus; to exclaim simultaneously.

Choses (pl. ) of Chose

Chose (n.) A thing; personal property.

Chose () imp. & p. p. of Choose.

Chosen (p. p.) Selected from a number; picked out; choice.

Chosen (n.) One who, or that which is the object of choice or special favor.

Chouan (n.) One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany, etc.), during and after the French revolution.

Chough (n.) A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus) of Europe. It is of a black color, with a long, slender, curved bill and red legs; -- also called chauk, chauk-daw, chocard, Cornish chough, red-legged crow. The name is also applied to several allied birds, as the Alpine chough.

Chouicha (n.) The salmon of the Columbia River or California. See Quinnat.

Chouka (n.) The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara.

Choule (n.) See Jowl.

Choultry (n.) See Choltry.

Choused (imp. & p. p.) of Chouse

Chousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chouse

Chouse (v. t.) To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, to chouse one out of his money.

Chouse (n.) One who is easily cheated; a tool; a simpleton; a gull.

Chouse (n.) A trick; sham; imposition.

Chouse (n.) A swindler.

Chout (n.) An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue.

Chowchow (a.) Consisting of several kinds mingled together; mixed; as, chowchow sweetmeats (preserved fruits put together).

Chowchow (n.) A kind of mixed pickles.

Chowder (n.) A dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit, onions, etc., stewed together.

Chowder (n.) A seller of fish.

Chowder (v. t.) To make a chowder of.

Chowry (n.) A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies.

Chowter (v. t.) To grumble or mutter like a froward child.

Choy root () See Chay root.

Chrematistics (n.) The science of wealth; the science, or a branch of the science, of political economy.

Chreotechnics (n.) The science of the useful arts, esp. agriculture, manufactures, and commerce.

Chrestomathic (a.) Teaching what is useful.

Chrestomathy (n.) A selection of passages, with notes, etc., to be used in acquiring a language; as, a Hebrew chrestomathy.

Chrism (n.) Olive oil mixed with balm and spices, consecrated by the bishop on Maundy Thursday, and used in the administration of baptism, confirmation, ordination, etc.

Chrism (n.) The same as Chrisom.

Chrismal (a.) Of or pertaining to or used in chrism.

Chrismation (n.) The act of applying the chrism, or consecrated oil.

Chrismatory (n.) A cruet or vessel in which chrism is kept.

Chrisom (n.) A white cloth, anointed with chrism, or a white mantle thrown over a child when baptized or christened.

Chrisom (n.) A child which died within a month after its baptism; -- so called from the chrisom cloth which was used as a shroud for it.

Christ (n.) The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior. It is synonymous with the Hebrew Messiah.

Christcross (n.) The mark of the cross, as cut, painted, written, or stamped on certain objects, -- sometimes as the sign of 12 o'clock on a dial.

Christcross (n.) The beginning and the ending.

Christcross-row () The alphabet; -- formerly so called, either from the cross usually set before it, or from a superstitious custom, sometimes practiced, of writing it in the form of a cross, by way of a charm.

Christened (imp. & p. p.) of Christen

Christening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Christen

Christen (v. t.) To baptize and give a Christian name to.

Christen (v. t.) To give a name; to denominate.

Christen (v. t.) To Christianize.

Christen (v. t.) To use for the first time.

Christendom (n.) The profession of faith in Christ by baptism; hence, the Christian religion, or the adoption of it.

Christendom (n.) The name received at baptism; or, more generally, any name or appelation.

Christendom (n.) That portion of the world in which Christianity prevails, or which is governed under Christian institutions, in distinction from heathen or Mohammedan lands.

Christendom (n.) The whole body of Christians.

Christian (n.) One who believes, or professes or is assumed to believe, in Jesus Christ, and the truth as taught by Him; especially, one whose inward and outward life is conformed to the doctrines of Christ.

Christian (n.) One born in a Christian country or of Christian parents, and who has not definitely becomes an adherent of an opposing system.

Christian (n.) One of a Christian denomination which rejects human creeds as bases of fellowship, and sectarian names. They are congregational in church government, and baptize by immersion. They are also called Disciples of Christ, and Campbellites.

Christian (n.) One of a sect (called Christian Connection) of open-communion immersionists. The Bible is their only authoritative rule of faith and practice.

Christian (a.) Pertaining to Christ or his religion; as, Christian people.

Christian (a.) Pertaining to the church; ecclesiastical; as, a Christian court.

Christian (a.) Characteristic of Christian people; civilized; kind; kindly; gentle; beneficent.

Christianism (n.) The Christian religion.

Christianism (n.) The Christian world; Christendom.

Christianite (n.) Same as Anorthite.

Christianite (n.) See Phillipsite.

Christianity (n.) The religion of Christians; the system of doctrines and precepts taught by Christ.

Christianity (n.) Practical conformity of one's inward and outward life to the spirit of the Christian religion

Christianity (n.) The body of Christian believers.

Christianization (n.) The act or process of converting or being converted to a true Christianity.

Christianized (imp. & p. p.) of Christianize

Christianizing (p. pr. vb. n.) of Christianize

Christianize (v. t.) To make Christian; to convert to Christianity; as, to Christianize pagans.

Christianize (v. t.) To imbue with or adapt to Christian principles.

Christianize (v. i.) To adopt the character or belief of a Christian; to become Christian.

Christianlike (a.) Becoming to a Christian.

Christianly (adv.) In a manner becoming the principles of the Christian religion.

Christianly (a.) Christianlike.

Christianness (n.) Consonance with the doctrines of Christianity.

Christless (a.) Without faith in Christ; unchristian.

Christlike (a.) Resembling Christ in character, actions, etc.

Christly (a.) Christlike.

Christmas (n.) An annual church festival (December 25) and in some States a legal holiday, in memory of the birth of Christ, often celebrated by a particular church service, and also by special gifts, greetings, and hospitality.

Christmastide (n.) The season of Christmas.

Christocentric (a.) Making Christ the center, about whom all things are grouped, as in religion or history; tending toward Christ, as the central object of thought or emotion.

Christology (n.) A treatise on Christ; that department of theology which treats of the personality, attributes, or life of Christ.

Christom (n.) See Chrisom.

Christophany (n.) An appearance of Christ, as to his disciples after the crucifixion.

Christ's-thorn (n.) One of several prickly or thorny shrubs found in Palestine, especially the Paliurus aculeatus, Zizyphus Spina-Christi, and Z. vulgaris. The last bears the fruit called jujube, and may be considered to have been the most readily obtainable for the Crown of Thorns.

Chromascope (n.) An instrument for showing the optical effects of color.

Chromate (n.) A salt of chromic acid.

Chromatic (a.) Relating to color, or to colors.

Chromatic (a.) Proceeding by the smaller intervals (half steps or semitones) of the scale, instead of the regular intervals of the diatonic scale.

Chromatical (a.) Chromatic.

Chromatically (adv.) In a chromatic manner.

Chromatics (n.) The science of colors; that part of optics which treats of the properties of colors.

Chromatin (n.) Tissue which is capable of being stained by dyes.

Chromatism (n.) The state of being colored, as in the case of images formed by a lens.

Chromatism (n.) An abnormal coloring of plants.

Chromatogenous (a.) Producing color.

Chromatography (n.) A treatise on colors

Chromatology (n.) A treatise on colors.

Chromatophore (n.) A contractile cell or vesicle containing liquid pigment and capable of changing its form or size, thus causing changes of color in the translucent skin of such animals as possess them. They are highly developed and numerous in the cephalopods.

Chromatophore (n.) One of the granules of protoplasm, which in mass give color to the part of the plant containing them.

Chromatoscope (n.) A reflecting telescope, part of which is made to rotate eccentrically, so as to produce a ringlike image of a star, instead of a point; -- used in studying the scintillation of the stars.

Chromatosphere (n.) A chromosphere.

Chromatrope (n.) An instrument for exhibiting certain chromatic effects of light (depending upon the persistence of vision and mixture of colors) by means of rapidly rotating disks variously colored.

Chromatrope (n.) A device in a magic lantern or stereopticon to produce kaleidoscopic effects.

Chromatype (n.) A colored photographic picture taken upon paper made sensitive with potassium bichromate or some other salt of chromium.

Chromatype (n.) The process by which such picture is made.

Chrome (n.) Same as Chromium.

Chromic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, chromium; -- said of the compounds of chromium in which it has its higher valence.

Chromid (n.) One of the Chromidae, a family of fresh-water fishes abundant in the tropical parts of America and Africa. Some are valuable food fishes, as the bulti of the Nile.

Chromidrosis (n.) Secretion of abnormally colored perspiration.

Chromism (n.) Same as Chromatism.

Chromite (n.) A black submetallic mineral consisting of oxide of chromium and iron; -- called also chromic iron.

Chromite (n.) A compound or salt of chromous hydroxide regarded as an acid.

Chromium (n.) A comparatively rare element occurring most abundantly in the mineral chromite. Atomic weight 52.5. Symbol Cr. When isolated it is a hard, brittle, grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty. Its chief commercial importance is for its compounds, as potassium chromate, lead chromate, etc., which are brilliantly colored and are used dyeing and calico printing. Called also chrome.

Chromos (pl. ) of Chromo

Chromo (n.) A chromolithograph.

Chromoblast (n.) An embryonic cell which develops into a pigment cell.

Chromogen () Vegetable coloring matter other than green; chromule.

Chromogen () Any colored compound, supposed to contain one or more chromophores.

Chromogenic (a.) Containing, or capable of forming, chromogen; as, chromogenic bacteria.

Chromograph (n.) An apparatus by which a number of copies of written matter, maps, plans, etc., can be made; -- called also hectograph.

Chromoleucite (n.) A chromoplastid.

Chromolithograph (n.) A picture printed in tints and colors by repeated impressions from a series of stones prepared by the lithographic process.

Chromolithographer (n.) One who is engaged in chromolithography.

Chromolithographic (a.) Pertaining to, or made by, chromolithography.

Chromolithography (n.) Lithography adapted to printing in inks of various colors.

Chromophane (n.) A general name for the several coloring matters, red, green, yellow, etc., present in the inner segments in the cones of the retina, held in solution by fats, and slowly decolorized by light; distinct from the photochemical pigments of the rods of the retina.

Chromophore (n.) Any chemical group or residue (as NO2; N2; or O2) which imparts some decided color to the compound of which it is an ingredient.

Chromophotography (n.) The art of producing photographs in colors.

Chromophotolithograph (n.) A photolithograph printed in colors.

Chromoplastid (n.) A protoplasmic granule of some other color than green; -- also called chromoleucite.

Chromosome (n.) One of the minute bodies into which the chromatin of the nucleus is resolved during mitotic cell division; the idant of Weismann.

Chromosphere (n.) An atmosphere of rare matter, composed principally of incandescent hydrogen gas, surrounding the sun and enveloping the photosphere. Portions of the chromosphere are here and there thrown up into enormous tongues of flame.

Chromospheric (a.) Of or pertaining to the chromosphere.

Chromotype (n.) A sheet printed in colors by any process, as a chromolithograph. See Chromolithograph.

Chromotype (n.) A photographic picture in the natural colors.

Chromous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chromium, when this element has a valence lower than that in chromic compounds.

Chromule (n.) A general name for coloring matter of plants other than chlorophyll, especially that of petals.

Chronic (a.) Relating to time; according to time.

Chronic (a.) Continuing for a long time; lingering; habitual.

Chronical (a.) Chronic.

Chronicle (n.) An historical register or account of facts or events disposed in the order of time.

Chronicle (n.) A narrative of events; a history; a record.

Chronicle (n.) The two canonical books of the Old Testament in which immediately follow 2 Kings.

Chronicled (imp. & p. p.) of Chronicle

Chronicling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chronicle

Chronicle (v. t.) To record in a history or chronicle; to record; to register.

Chronicler (n.) A writer of a chronicle; a recorder of events in the order of time; an historian.

Chronique (n.) A chronicle.

Chronogram (n.) An inscription in which certain numeral letters, made to appear specially conspicuous, on being added together, express a particular date or epoch, as in the motto of a medal struck by Gustavus Adolphus in 1632: ChrIstVs DVX; ergo trIVMphVs.- the capitals of which give, when added as numerals, the sum 1632.

Chronogram (n.) The record or inscription made by a chronograph.

Chronogrammatic (a.) Alt. of Chronogrammatical

Chronogrammatical (a.) Belonging to a chronogram, or containing one.

Chronogrammatist (n.) A writer of chronograms.

Chronograph (n.) An instrument for measuring or recording intervals of time, upon a revolving drum or strip of paper moved by clockwork. The action of the stylus or pen is controlled by electricity.

Chronograph (n.) Same as Chronogram, 1.

Chronograph (n.) A chronoscope.

Chronographer (n.) One who writes a chronography; a chronologer.

Chronographic (a.) Of or pertaining to a chronograph.

Chronography (n.) A description or record of past time; history.

Chronologer (n.) Same as Chronologist.

Chronologic (a.) Alt. of Chronological

Chronological (a.) Relating to chronology; containing an account of events in the order of time; according to the order of time; as, chronological tables.

Chronologist (n.) Alt. of Chronologer

Chronologer (n.) A person who investigates dates of events and transactions; one skilled in chronology.

Chronologies (pl. ) of Chronology

Chronology (n.) The science which treats of measuring time by regular divisions or periods, and which assigns to events or transactions their proper dates.

Chronometer (n.) An instrument for measuring time; a timekeeper.

Chronometer (n.) A portable timekeeper, with a heavy compensation balance, and usually beating half seconds; -- intended to keep time with great accuracy for use an astronomical observations, in determining longitude, etc.

Chronometer (n.) A metronome.

Chronometric (a.) Alt. of Chronometrical

Chronometrical (a.) Pertaining to a chronometer; measured by a chronometer.

Chronometry (n.) The art of measuring time; the measuring of time by periods or divisions.

Chronopher (n.) An instrument signaling the correct time to distant points by electricity.

Chronoscope (n.) An instrument for measuring minute intervals of time; used in determining the velocity of projectiles, the duration of short-lived luminous phenomena, etc.

Chrysalid (a.) Pertaining to a chrysalis; resembling a chrysalis.

Chrysalids (pl. ) of Chrysalid

Chrysalid (n.) See Chrysalis.

Chrysalides (pl. ) of Chrysalis

Chrysalis (n.) The pupa state of certain insects, esp. of butterflies, from which the perfect insect emerges. See Pupa, and Aurelia (a).

Chrysaniline (n.) A yellow substance obtained as a by-product in the manufacture of rosaniline. It dyes silk a fine golden-yellow color.

Chrysanthemum (n.) A genus of composite plants, mostly perennial, and of many species including the many varieties of garden chrysanthemums (annual and perennial), and also the feverfew and the oxeye daisy.

Chrysarobin (n.) A bitter, yellow substance forming the essential constituent of Goa powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid proper; hence formerly called also chrysphanic acid.

Chrysaurin (n.) An orange-colored dyestuff, of artificial production.

Chryselephantine (a.) Composed of, or adorned with, gold and ivory.

Chrysene (n.) One of the higher aromatic hydrocarbons of coal tar, allied to naphthalene and anthracene. It is a white crystalline substance, C18H12, of strong blue fluorescence, but generally colored yellow by impurities.

Chrysoberyl (n.) A mineral, found in crystals, of a yellow to green or brown color, and consisting of aluminia and glucina. It is very hard, and is often used as a gem.

Chrysochlore (n.) A South African mole of the genus Chrysochloris; the golden mole, the fur of which reflects brilliant metallic hues of green and gold.

Chrysocolla (n.) A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring massive, of a blue or greenish blue color.

Chrysogen (n.) A yellow crystalline substance extracted from crude anthracene.

Chrysography (n.) The art of writing in letters of gold.

Chrysography (n.) A writing executed in letters of gold.

Chrysoidine (n.) An artificial, yellow, crystalline dye, C6H5N2.C6H3(NH2)2. Also, one of a group of dyestuffs resembling chrysoidine proper.

Chrysolite (n.) A mineral, composed of silica, magnesia, and iron, of a yellow to green color. It is common in certain volcanic rocks; -- called also olivine and peridot. Sometimes used as a gem. The name was also early used for yellow varieties of tourmaline and topaz.

Chrysology (n.) That branch of political economy which relates to the production of wealth.

Chrysopa (n.) A genus of neuropterous insects. See Lacewing.

Chrysophane (n.) A glucoside extracted from rhubarb as a bitter, yellow, crystalline powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid on decomposition.

Chrysophanic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, or resembling, chrysophane.

Chrysoprase (n.) An apple-green variety of chalcedony, colored by nickel. It has a dull flinty luster, and is sometimes used in jewelry.

Chrysoprasus (n.) See Chrysoprase.

Chrysosperm (n.) The seed of gold; a means of creating gold.

Chrysotype (n.) A photographic picture taken upon paper prepared by the use of a sensitive salt of iron and developed by the application of chloride of gold.

Chrysotype (n.) 2process, invented by Sir J.Herschel.

Chthonic (a.) Pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, chthonic religions.

Chthonophagia (n.) Alt. of Chthonophagy

Chthonophagy (n.) A disease characterized by an irresistible desire to eat earth, observed in some parts of the southern United States, the West Indies, etc.

Chub (n.) A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidae or Carp family. The common European species is Leuciscus cephalus; the cheven. In America the name is applied to various fishes of the same family, of the genera Semotilus, Squalius, Ceratichthys, etc., and locally to several very different fishes, as the tautog, black bass, etc.

Chubbed (a.) Chubby.

Chubbedness (n.) The state of being chubby.

Chubby (a.) Like a chub; plump, short, and thick.

Chub-faced (a.) Having a plump, short face.

Chucked (imp. & p. p.) of Chuck

Chucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chuck

Chuck (v. i.) To make a noise resembling that of a hen when she calls her chickens; to cluck.

Chuck (v. i.) To chuckle; to laugh.

Chuck (v. t.) To call, as a hen her chickens.

Chuck (n.) The chuck or call of a hen.

Chuck (n.) A sudden, small noise.

Chuck (n.) A word of endearment; -- corrupted from chick.

Chucked (imp. & p. p.) of Chuck

Chucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chuck

Chuck (v. t.) To strike gently; to give a gentle blow to.

Chuck (v. t.) To toss or throw smartly out of the hand; to pitch.

Chuck (v. t.) To place in a chuck, or hold by means of a chuck, as in turning; to bore or turn (a hole) in a revolving piece held in a chuck.

Chuck (n.) A slight blow or pat under the chin.

Chuck (n.) A short throw; a toss.

Chuck (n.) A contrivance or machine fixed to the mandrel of a lathe, for holding a tool or the material to be operated upon.

Chuck (n.) A small pebble; -- called also chuckstone and chuckiestone.

Chuck (n.) A game played with chucks, in which one or more are tossed up and caught; jackstones.

Chuck (n.) A piece of the backbone of an animal, from between the neck and the collar bone, with the adjoining parts, cut for cooking; as, a chuck steak; a chuck roast.

Chuckled (imp. & p. p.) of Chuckle

Chuckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chuckle

Chuckle (v. t.) To call, as a hen her chickens; to cluck.

Chuckle (v. t.) To fondle; to cocker.

Chuckle (n.) A short, suppressed laugh; the expression of satisfaction, exultation, or derision.

Chuckle (v. i.) To laugh in a suppressed or broken manner, as expressing inward satisfaction, exultation, or derision.

Chucklehead (n.) A person with a large head; a numskull; a dunce.

Chuckleheaded (a.) Having a large head; thickheaded; dull; stupid.

Chuck-Will's-widow (n.) A species of goatsucker (Antrostomus Carolinensis), of the southern United States; -- so called from its note.

Chud (v. t.) To champ; to bite.

Chuet (n.) Minced meat.

Chufa (n.) A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus) producing edible tubers, native about the Mediterranean, now cultivated in many regions; the earth almond.

Chuff (n.) A coarse or stupid fellow.

Chuff (a.) Stupid; churlish.

Chuffily (adv.) Clownishly; surlily.

Chuffiness (n.) The quality of being chuffy.

Chuffy (a.) Fat or puffed out in the cheeks.

Chuffy (a.) Rough; clownish; surly.

Chulan (n.) The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used in China for perfuming tea.

Chum (n.) A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old and intimate friend.

Chummed (imp. p. p.) of Chum

Chumming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chum

Chum (v. i.) To occupy a chamber with another; as, to chum together at college.

Chum (n.) Chopped pieces of fish used as bait.

Chump (n.) A short, thick, heavy piece of wood.

Chunam (n.) Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar.

Chunk (n.) A short, thick piece of anything.

Chunky (a.) Short and thick.

Church (n.) A building set apart for Christian worship.

Church (n.) A Jewish or heathen temple.

Church (n.) A formally organized body of Christian believers worshiping together.

Church (n.) A body of Christian believers, holding the same creed, observing the same rites, and acknowledging the same ecclesiastical authority; a denomination; as, the Roman Catholic church; the Presbyterian church.

Church (n.) The collective body of Christians.

Church (n.) Any body of worshipers; as, the Jewish church; the church of Brahm.

Church (n.) The aggregate of religious influences in a community; ecclesiastical influence, authority, etc.; as, to array the power of the church against some moral evil.

Churched (imp. & p. p.) of Church

Churching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Church

Church (v. t.) To bless according to a prescribed form, or to unite with in publicly returning thanks in church, as after deliverance from the dangers of childbirth; as, the churching of women.

Church-ale (n.) A church or parish festival (as in commemoration of the dedication of a church), at which much ale was used.

Church-bench (n.) A seat in the porch of a church.

Churchdom (n.) The institution, government, or authority of a church.

Churchgoer (n.) One who attends church.

Churchgoing (a.) Habitually attending church.

Churchgoing (a.) Summoning to church.

Church-haw (n.) Churchyard.

Churchism (n.) Strict adherence to the forms or principles of some church organization; sectarianism.

Churchless (a.) Without a church.

Churchlike (a.) Befitting a church or a churchman; becoming to a clergyman.

Churchliness (n.) Regard for the church.

Churchly (a.) Pertaining to, or suitable for, the church; ecclesiastical.

Churchmen (pl. ) of Churchman

Churchman (n.) An ecclesiastic or clergyman.

Churchman (n.) An Episcopalian, or a member of the Established Church of England.

Churchman (n.) One was is attached to, or attends, church.

Churchmanly (a.) Pertaining to, or becoming, a churchman.

Churchmanship (n.) The state or quality of being a churchman; attachment to the church.

Church modes () The modes or scales used in ancient church music. See Gregorian.

Churchship (n.) State of being a church.

Churchwarden (n.) One of the officers (usually two) in an Episcopal church, whose duties vary in different dioceses, but always include the provision of what is necessary for the communion service.

Churchwarden (n.) A clay tobacco pipe, with a long tube.

Churchwardenship (n.) The office of a churchwarden.

Churchy (a.) Relating to a church; unduly fond of church forms.

Churchyard (n.) The ground adjoining a church, in which the dead are buried; a cemetery.

Churl (n.) A rustic; a countryman or laborer.

Churl (n.) A rough, surly, ill-bred man; a boor.

Churl (n.) A selfish miser; an illiberal person; a niggard.

Churl (a.) Churlish; rough; selfish.

Churlish (a.) Like a churl; rude; cross-grained; ungracious; surly; illiberal; niggardly.

Churlish (a.) Wanting pliancy; unmanageable; unyielding; not easily wrought; as, a churlish soil; the churlish and intractable nature of some minerals.

Churlishly (adv.) In a churlish manner.

Churlishness (n.) Rudeness of manners or temper; lack of kindness or courtesy.

Churly (a.) Rude; churlish; violent.

Churme (n.) Alt. of Chirm

Chirm (n.) Clamor, or confused noise; buzzing.

Churn (v. t.) A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, or otherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher) in order to separate the oily globules from the other parts, and obtain butter.

Churned (imp. & p. p.) of Churn

Churning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Churn

Churn (v. t.) To stir, beat, or agitate, as milk or cream in a churn, in order to make butter.

Churn (v. t.) To shake or agitate with violence.

Churn (v. i.) To perform the operation of churning.

Churning (n.) The act of one who churns.

Churning (n.) The quantity of butter made at one operation.

Churrus (n.) A powerfully narcotic and intoxicating gum resin which exudes from the flower heads, seeds, etc., of Indian hemp.

Churrworm (n.) An insect that turns about nimbly; the mole cricket; -- called also fan cricket.

Chuse (v. t.) See Choose.

Chute (n.) A framework, trough, or tube, upon or through which objects are made to slide from a higher to a lower level, or through which water passes to a wheel.

Chute (n.) See Shoot.

Chutney (n.) Alt. of Chutnee

Chutnee (n.) A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compounded of various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc.

Chylaceous (a.) Possessed of the properties of chyle; consisting of chyle.

Chylaqueous (a.) Consisting of chyle much diluted with water; -- said of a liquid which forms the circulating fluid of some inferior animals.

Chyle (n.) A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in a state of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme by the action of the intestinal juices. It is absorbed by the lacteals, and conveyed into the blood by the thoracic duct.

Chylifaction (n.) The act or process by which chyle is formed from food in animal bodies; chylification, -- a digestive process.

Chylifactive (a.) Producing, or converting into, chyle; having the power to form chyle.

Chyliferous (a.) Transmitting or conveying chyle; as, chyliferous vessels.

Chylific (a.) Chylifactive.

Chylification (n.) The formation of chyle. See Chylifaction.

Chylificatory (a.) Chylifactive.

Chylify (v. t. & i.) To make chyle of; to be converted into chyle.

Chylopoetic (a.) Concerned in the formation of chyle; as, the chylopoetic organs.

Chylous (a.) Consisting of, or similar to, chyle.

Chyluria (n.) A morbid condition in which the urine contains chyle or fatty matter, giving it a milky appearance.

Chyme (n.) The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestines just after its passage from the stomach. It is separated in the intestines into chyle and excrement. See Chyle.

Chymic () Alt. of Chymistry

Chymist () Alt. of Chymistry

Chymistry () See Chemic, Chemist, Chemistry.

Chymiferous (a.) Bearing or containing chyme.

Chymification (n.) The conversion of food into chyme by the digestive action of gastric juice.

Chymify (v. t.) To form into chyme.

Chymous (a.) Of or pertaining to chyme.

Chyometer (n.) An instrument for measuring liquids. It consists of a piston moving in a tube in which is contained the liquid, the quantity expelled being indicated by the graduation upon the piston rod.

Cibarious (a.) Pertaining to food; edible.

Cibation (n.) The act of taking food.

Cibation (n.) The process or operation of feeding the contents of the crucible with fresh material.

Cibol (n.) A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimes called Welsh onion. Its fistular leaves areused in cookery.

Ciboria (pl. ) of Ciborium

Ciborium (n.) A canopy usually standing free and supported on four columns, covering the high altar, or, very rarely, a secondary altar.

Ciborium (n.) The coffer or case in which the host is kept; the pyx.

Cicadas (pl. ) of Cicada

Cicadae (pl. ) of Cicada

Cicada (n.) Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterous insects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill sound by peculiar organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of a pair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A noted American species (C. septendecim) is called the seventeen year locust. Another common species is the dogday cicada.

Cicala (n.) A cicada. See Cicada.

Cicatrice (n.) A cicatrix.

Cicatricial (a.) Relating to, or having the character of, a cicatrix.

Cicatricle (n.) The germinating point in the embryo of a seed; the point in the yolk of an egg at which development begins.

Cicatrisive (a.) Tending to promote the formation of a cicatrix; good for healing of a wound.

Cicatrices (pl. ) of Cicatrix

Cicatrix (n.) The pellicle which forms over a wound or breach of continuity and completes the process of healing in the latter, and which subsequently contracts and becomes white, forming the scar.

Cicatrizant (n.) A medicine or application that promotes the healing of a sore or wound, or the formation of a cicatrix.

Cicatrization (n.) The process of forming a cicatrix, or the state of being cicatrized.

Cicatrized (imp. & p. p.) of Cicatrize

Cicatrizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cicatrize

Cicatrize (v. t.) To heal or induce the formation of a cicatrix in, as in wounded or ulcerated flesh.

Cicatrize (v. i.) To heal; to have a new skin.

Cicatrose (a.) Full of scars.

Cicely (n.) Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis, Osmorrhiza, etc.

Cicero (n.) Pica type; -- so called by French printers.

Ciceroni (pl. ) of Cicerone

Cicerones (pl. ) of Cicerone

Cicerone (n.) One who shows strangers the curiosities of a place; a guide.

Ciceronian (a.) Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent.

Ciceronianism (n.) Imitation of, or resemblance to, the style or action Cicero; a Ciceronian phrase or expression.

Cichoraceous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a suborder of composite plants of which the chicory (Cichorium) is the type.

Cich-pea (n.) The chick-pea.

Cicisbeism (n.) The state or conduct of a cicisbeo.

Cicisbei (pl. ) of Cicisbeo

Cicisbeo (n.) A professed admirer of a married woman; a dangler about women.

Cicisbeo (n.) A knot of silk or ribbon attached to a fan, walking stick, etc.

Ciclatoun (n.) A costly cloth, of uncertain material, used in the Middle Ages.

Cicurate (v. t.) To tame.

Cicuration (n.) The act of taming.

Cicuta (n.) a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the water hemlock or cowbane is best known.

Cicutoxin (n.) The active principle of the water hemlock (Cicuta) extracted as a poisonous gummy substance.

Cid (n.) Chief or commander; in Spanish literature, a title of Ruy Diaz, Count of Bivar, a champion of Christianity and of the old Spanish royalty, in the 11th century.

Cid (n.) An epic poem, which celebrates the exploits of the Spanish national hero, Ruy Diaz.

Cider (n.) The expressed juice of apples. It is used as a beverage, for making vinegar, and for other purposes.

Ciderist (n.) A maker of cider.

Ciderkin (n.) A kind of weak cider made by steeping the refuse pomace in water.

Ci-devant (a.) Former; previous; of times gone by; as, a ci-devant governor.

Cierge (n.) A wax candle used in religous rites.

Cigar (n.) A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking.

Cigarette (n.) A little cigar; a little fine tobacco rolled in paper for smoking.

Cilia (n. pl.) The eyelashes.

Cilia (n. pl.) Small, generally microscopic, vibrating appendages lining certain organs, as the air passages of the higher animals, and in the lower animals often covering also the whole or a part of the exterior. They are also found on some vegetable organisms. In the Infusoria, and many larval forms, they are locomotive organs.

Cilia (n. pl.) Hairlike processes, commonly marginal and forming a fringe like the eyelash.

Cilia (n. pl.) Small, vibratory, swimming organs, somewhat resembling true cilia, as those of Ctenophora.

Ciliary (a.) Pertaining to the cilia, or eyelashes. Also applied to special parts of the eye itself; as, the ciliary processes of the choroid coat; the ciliary muscle, etc.

Ciliary (a.) Pertaining to or connected with the cilia in animal or vegetable organisms; as, ciliary motion.

Ciliata (n. pl.) One of the orders of Infusoria, characterized by having cilia. In some species the cilia cover the body generally, in others they form a band around the mouth.

Ciliate (a.) Alt. of Ciliated

Ciliated (a.) Provided with, or surrounded by, cilia; as, a ciliate leaf; endowed with vibratory motion; as, the ciliated epithelium of the windpipe.

Cilice (n.) A kind of haircloth undergarment.

Cilician (a.) Of or pertaining to Cilicia in Asia Minor.

Cilician (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cilicia.

Cilicious (a.) Made, or consisting, of hair.

Ciliform (a.) Alt. of Ciliiform

Ciliiform (a.) Having the form of cilia; very fine or slender.

Ciliograde (a.) Moving by means of cilia, or cilialike organs; as, the ciliograde Medusae.

Cilium (n.) See Cilia.

Cill (n.) See Sill., n. a foundation.

Cillosis (n.) A spasmodic trembling of the upper eyelid.

Cima (n.) A kind of molding. See Cyma.

Cimar (n.) See Simar.

Cimbal (n.) A kind of confectionery or cake.

Cimbia (n.) A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if to strengthen it.

Cimbrian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cimbri.

Cimbrian (n.) One of the Cimbri. See Cimbric.

Cimbric (a.) Pertaining to the Cimbri, an ancient tribe inhabiting Northern Germany.

Cimbric (n.) The language of the Cimbri.

Cimeliarch (n.) A superintendent or keeper of a church's valuables; a churchwarden.

Cimeter (n.) See Scimiter.

Cimices (pl. ) of Cimex

Cimex (n.) A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the best known example. See Bedbug.

Cimia (n.) See Cimbia.

Cimiss (n.) The bedbug.

Cimmerian (a.) Pertaining to the Cimmerii, a fabulous people, said to have lived, in very ancient times, in profound and perpetual darkness.

Cimmerian (a.) Without any light; intensely dark.

Cimolite (n.) A soft, earthy, clayey mineral, of whitish or grayish color.

Cinch (n.) A strong saddle girth, as of canvas.

Cinch (n.) A tight grip.

Cinchona (n.) A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing a medicinal bark of great value.

Cinchona (n.) The bark of any species of Cinchona containing three per cent. or more of bitter febrifuge alkaloids; Peruvian bark; Jesuits' bark.

Cinchonaceous (a.) Allied or pertaining to cinchona, or to the plants that produce it.

Cinchonic (a.) Belonging to, or obtained from, cinchona.

Cinchonidine (n.) One of the quinine group of alkaloids, found especially in red cinchona bark. It is a white crystalline substance, C19H22N2O, with a bitter taste and qualities similar to, but weaker than, quinine; -- sometimes called also cinchonidia.

Cinchonine (n.) One of the quinine group of alkaloids isomeric with and resembling cinchonidine; -- called also cinchonia.

Cinchonism (n.) A condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use of quinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc.

Cinchonize (v. t.) To produce cinchonism in; to poison with quinine or with cinchona.

Cincinnati epoch () An epoch at the close of the American lower Silurian system. The rocks are well developed near Cincinnati, Ohio. The group includes the Hudson River and Lorraine shales of New York.

Cincture (n.) A belt, a girdle, or something worn round the body, -- as by an ecclesiastic for confining the alb.

Cincture (n.) That which encompasses or incloses; an inclosure.

Cincture (n.) The fillet, listel, or band next to the apophyge at the extremity of the shaft of a column.

Cinctured (n.) Having or wearing a cincture or girdle.

Cinder (n.) Partly burned or vitrified coal, or other combustible, in which fire is extinct.

Cinder (n.) A hot coal without flame; an ember.

Cinder (n.) A scale thrown off in forging metal.

Cinder (n.) The slag of a furnace, or scoriaceous lava from a volcano.

Cindery (a.) Resembling, or composed of, cinders; full of cinders.

Cinefaction (n.) Cineration; reduction to ashes.

Cinematic (a.) Alt. of Cinematical

Cinematical (a.) See Kinematic.

Cinematics (n. sing.) See Kinematics.

Cineraceous (a.) Like ashes; ash-colored; cinereous.

Cineraria (n.) A Linnaean genus of free-flowering composite plants, mostly from South Africa. Several species are cultivated for ornament.

Cinerary (a.) Pertaining to ashes; containing ashes.

Cineration (n.) The reducing of anything to ashes by combustion; cinefaction.

Cinereous (a.) Like ashes; ash-colored; grayish.

Cinerescent (a.) Somewhat cinereous; of a color somewhat resembling that of wood ashes.

Cineritious (a.) Like ashes; having the color of ashes, -- as the cortical substance of the brain.

Cinerulent (a.) Full of ashes.

Cingalese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Ceylon descended from its primitive inhabitants

Cingalese (n. sing. & pl.) the language of the Cingalese.

Cingalese (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cingalese.

Cingle (n.) A girth.

Cingulum (n.) A distinct girdle or band of color; a raised spiral line as seen on certain univalve shells.

Cingulum (n.) The clitellus of earthworms.

Cingulum (n.) The base of the crown of a tooth.

Cinnabar (n.) Red sulphide of mercury, occurring in brilliant red crystals, and also in red or brown amorphous masses. It is used in medicine.

Cinnabar (n.) The artificial red sulphide of mercury used as a pigment; vermilion.

Cinnabarine (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, cinnabar; consisting of cinnabar, or containing it; as, cinnabarine sand.

Cinnamene (n.) Styrene (which was formerly called cinnamene because obtained from cinnamic acid). See Styrene.

Cinnamic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, cinnamon.

Cinnamomic (a.) See Cinnamic.

Cinnamon (n.) The inner bark of the shoots of Cinnamomum Zeylanicum, a tree growing in Ceylon. It is aromatic, of a moderately pungent taste, and is one of the best cordial, carminative, and restorative spices.

Cinnamon (n.) Cassia.

Cinnamone (n.) A yellow crystalline substance, (C6H5.C2H2)2CO, the ketone of cinnamic acid.

Cinnamyl (n.) The hypothetical radical, (C6H5.C2H2)2C, of cinnamic compounds.

Cinnoline (n.) A nitrogenous organic base, C8H6N2, analogous to quinoline, obtained from certain complex diazo compounds.

Cinque (n.) Five; the number five in dice or cards.

Cinquecento (n. & a.) The sixteenth century, when applied to Italian art or literature; as, the sculpture of the Cinquecento; Cinquecento style.

Cinquefoil (n.) The name of several different species of the genus Potentilla; -- also called five-finger, because of the resemblance of its leaves to the fingers of the hand.

Cinquefoil (n.) An ornamental foliation having five points or cups, used in windows, panels, etc.

Cinque-pace (n.) A lively dance (called also galliard), the steps of which were regulated by the number five.

Cinque Ports () Five English ports, to which peculiar privileges were anciently accorded; -- viz., Hastings, Romney, Hythe, Dover, and Sandwich; afterwards increased by the addition of Winchelsea, Rye, and some minor places.

Cinque-spotted (a.) Five-spotted.

Cinter (n.) See Center.

Cinura (n. pl.) The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms; the bristletails. See Bristletail, and Lepisma.

Cion (n.) See Scion.

Cipher (n.) A character [0] which, standing by itself, expresses nothing, but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases its value tenfold.

Cipher (n.) One who, or that which, has no weight or influence.

Cipher (n.) A character in general, as a figure or letter.

Cipher (n.) A combination or interweaving of letters, as the initials of a name; a device; a monogram; as, a painter's cipher, an engraver's cipher, etc. The cut represents the initials N. W.

Cipher (n.) A private alphabet, system of characters, or other mode of writing, contrived for the safe transmission of secrets; also, a writing in such characters.

Cipher (a.) Of the nature of a cipher; of no weight or influence.

Ciphered (imp. & p. p.) of Cipher

Ciphering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cipher

Cipher (v. i.) To use figures in a mathematical process; to do sums in arithmetic.

Cipher (v. t.) To write in occult characters.

Cipher (v. t.) To get by ciphering; as, to cipher out the answer.

Cipher (v. t.) To decipher.

Cipher (v. t.) To designate by characters.

Cipherer (n.) One who ciphers.

Cipherhood (n.) Nothingness.

Cipolin (n.) A whitish marble, from Rome, containiing pale greenish zones. It consists of calcium carbonate, with zones and cloudings of talc.

Cippi (pl. ) of Cippus

Cippus (n.) A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having an inscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as for indicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchral inscriptions, etc.

Circ (n.) An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus.

Circar (n.) A district, or part of a province. See Sircar.

Circassian (a.) Of or pertaining to Circassia, in Asia.

Circassian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Circassia.

Circean (a.) Having the characteristics of Circe, daughter of Sol and Perseis, a mythological enchantress, who first charmed her victims and then changed them to the forms of beasts; pleasing, but noxious; as, a Circean draught.

Circensial (a.) Alt. of Circensian

Circensian (a.) Of or pertaining to, or held in, the Circus, In Rome.

Circinal (a.) Circinate.

Circinate (a.) Rolled together downward, the tip occupying the center; -- a term used in reference to foliation or leafing, as in ferns.

Circinate (v. t.) To make a circle around; to encompass.

Circination (n.) An orbicular motion.

Circination (n.) A circle; a concentric layer.

Circle (n.) A plane figure, bounded by a single curve line called its circumference, every part of which is equally distant from a point within it, called the center.

Circle (n.) The line that bounds such a figure; a circumference; a ring.

Circle (n.) An instrument of observation, the graduated limb of which consists of an entire circle.

Circle (n.) A round body; a sphere; an orb.

Circle (n.) Compass; circuit; inclosure.

Circle (n.) A company assembled, or conceived to assemble, about a central point of interest, or bound by a common tie; a class or division of society; a coterie; a set.

Circle (n.) A circular group of persons; a ring.

Circle (n.) A series ending where it begins, and repeating itself.

Circle (n.) A form of argument in which two or more unproved statements are used to prove each other; inconclusive reasoning.

Circle (n.) Indirect form of words; circumlocution.

Circle (n.) A territorial division or district.

Circled (imp. & p. p.) of Circle

Circling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circle

Circle (n.) To move around; to revolve around.

Circle (n.) To encompass, as by a circle; to surround; to inclose; to encircle.

Circle (v. i.) To move circularly; to form a circle; to circulate.

Circled (a.) Having the form of a circle; round.

Circler (n.) A mean or inferior poet, perhaps from his habit of wandering around as a stroller; an itinerant poet. Also, a name given to the cyclic poets. See under Cyclic, a.

Circlet (n.) A little circle; esp., an ornament for the person, having the form of a circle; that which encircles, as a ring, a bracelet, or a headband.

Circlet (n.) A round body; an orb.

Circlet (n.) A circular piece of wood put under a dish at table.

Circocele (n.) See Cirsocele.

Circuit (n.) The act of moving or revolving around, or as in a circle or orbit; a revolution; as, the periodical circuit of the earth round the sun.

Circuit (n.) The circumference of, or distance round, any space; the measure of a line round an area.

Circuit (n.) That which encircles anything, as a ring or crown.

Circuit (n.) The space inclosed within a circle, or within limits.

Circuit (n.) A regular or appointed journeying from place to place in the exercise of one's calling, as of a judge, or a preacher.

Circuit (n.) A certain division of a state or country, established by law for a judge or judges to visit, for the administration of justice.

Circuit (n.) A district in which an itinerant preacher labors.

Circuit (n.) Circumlocution.

Circuit (v. i.) To move in a circle; to go round; to circulate.

Circuit (v. t.) To travel around.

Circuiteer (n.) A circuiter.

Circuiter (n.) One who travels a circuit, as a circuit judge.

Circuition (n.) The act of going round; circumlocution.

Circuitous (a.) Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect; as, a circuitous road; a circuitous manner of accomplishing an end.

Circuity (n.) A going round in a circle; a course not direct; a roundabout way of proceeding.

Circulable (a.) That may be circulated.

Circular (a.) In the form of, or bounded by, a circle; round.

Circular (a.) repeating itself; ending in itself; reverting to the point of beginning; hence, illogical; inconclusive; as, circular reasoning.

Circular (a.) Adhering to a fixed circle of legends; cyclic; hence, mean; inferior. See Cyclic poets, under Cyclic.

Circular (a.) Addressed to a circle, or to a number of persons having a common interest; circulated, or intended for circulation; as, a circular letter.

Circular (a.) Perfect; complete.

Circular (a.) A circular letter, or paper, usually printed, copies of which are addressed or given to various persons; as, a business circular.

Circular (a.) A sleeveless cloak, cut in circular form.

Circularity (n.) The quality or state of being circular; a circular form.

Circularly (adv.) In a circular manner.

Circulary (a.) Circular; illogical.

Ciorculated (imp. & p. p.) of Circulate

Circulating (P. pr. & vb. n.) of Circulate

Circulate (v. i.) To move in a circle or circuitously; to move round and return to the same point; as, the blood circulates in the body.

Circulate (v. i.) To pass from place to place, from person to person, or from hand to hand; to be diffused; as, money circulates; a story circulates.

Circulate (v. t.) To cause to pass from place to place, or from person to person; to spread; as, to circulate a report; to circulate bills of credit.

Circulation (n.) The act of moving in a circle, or in a course which brings the moving body to the place where its motion began.

Circulation (n.) The act of passing from place to place or person to person; free diffusion; transmission.

Circulation (n.) Currency; circulating coin; notes, bills, etc., current for coin.

Circulation (n.) The extent to which anything circulates or is circulated; the measure of diffusion; as, the circulation of a newspaper.

Circulation (n.) The movement of the blood in the blood-vascular system, by which it is brought into close relations with almost every living elementary constituent. Also, the movement of the sap in the vessels and tissues of plants.

Circulative (a.) Promoting circulation; circulating.

Circulator (n.) One who, or that which, circulates.

Circulatorious (a.) Travelling from house to house or from town to town; itinerant.

Circulatory (a.) Circular; as, a circulatory letter.

Circulatory (a.) Circulating, or going round.

Circulatory (a.) Subserving the purposes of circulation; as, circulatory organs; of or pertaining to the organs of circulation; as, circulatory diseases.

Circulatory (n.) A chemical vessel consisting of two portions unequally exposed to the heat of the fire, and with connecting pipes or passages, through which the fluid rises from the overheated portion, and descends from the relatively colder, maintaining a circulation.

Circulet (n.) A circlet.

Circuline (a.) Proceeding in a circle; circular.

Circum- () A Latin preposition, used as a prefix in many English words, and signifying around or about.

Circumagitate (v. t.) To agitate on all sides.

Circumambage (n.) A roundabout or indirect course; indirectness.

Circumambiency (n.) The act of surrounding or encompassing.

Circumambient (a.) Surrounding; inclosing or being on all sides; encompassing.

Circumambulate (v. t.) To walk round about.

Circumbendibus (n.) A roundabout or indirect way.

Circumcenter (n.) The center of a circle that circumscribes a triangle.

Circumcised (imp. & p. p.) of Circumcise

Circumcising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumcise

Circumcise (v. t.) To cut off the prepuce of foreskin of, in the case of males, and the internal labia of, in the case of females.

Circumcise (v. t.) To purify spiritually.

Circumciser (n.) One who performs circumcision.

Circumcision (n.) The act of cutting off the prepuce or foreskin of males, or the internal labia of females.

Circumcision (n.) The Jews, as a circumcised people.

Circumcision (n.) Rejection of the sins of the flesh; spiritual purification, and acceptance of the Christian faith.

Circumclusion (n.) Act of inclosing on all sides.

Circumcursation (n.) The act of running about; also, rambling language.

Circumdenudation (n.) Denudation around or in the neighborhood of an object.

Circumduce (v. t.) To declare elapsed, as the time allowed for introducing evidence.

Circumduct (v. t.) To lead about; to lead astray.

Circumduct (v. t.) To contravene; to nullify; as, to circumduct acts of judicature.

Circumduction (n.) A leading about; circumlocution.

Circumduction (n.) An annulling; cancellation.

Circumduction (n.) The rotation of a limb round an imaginary axis, so as to describe a concial surface.

Circumesophagal (a.) Surrounding the esophagus; -- in Zool. said of the nerve commissures and ganglia of arthropods and mollusks.

Circumesophageal (a.) Circumesophagal.

Circumfer (v. t.) To bear or carry round.

Circumference (n.) The line that goes round or encompasses a circular figure; a periphery.

Circumference (n.) A circle; anything circular.

Circumference (n.) The external surface of a sphere, or of any orbicular body.

Circumference (v. t.) To include in a circular space; to bound.

Circumferential (a.) Pertaining to the circumference; encompassing; encircling; circuitous.

Circumferentially (adv.) So as to surround or encircle.

Circumferentor (n.) A surveying instrument, for taking horizontal angles and bearings; a surveyor's compass. It consists of a compass whose needle plays over a circle graduated to 360, and of a horizontal brass bar at the ends of which are standards with narrow slits for sighting, supported on a tripod by a ball and socket joint.

Circumferentor (n.) A graduated wheel for measuring tires; a tire circle.

Circumflant (a.) Blowing around.

Circumflected (imp. & p. p.) of Circumflect

Circumflecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumflect

Circumflect (v. t.) To bend around.

Circumflect (v. t.) To mark with the circumflex accent, as a vowel.

Circumflection (n.) See Circumflexion.

Circumflex (n.) A wave of the voice embracing both a rise and fall or a fall and a rise on the same a syllable.

Circumflex (n.) A character, or accent, denoting in Greek a rise and of the voice on the same long syllable, marked thus [~ or /]; and in Latin and some other languages, denoting a long and contracted syllable, marked [/ or ^]. See Accent, n., 2.

Circumflexed (imp. & p. p.) of Circumflex

Circumflexing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumflex

Circumflex (v. t.) To mark or pronounce with a circumflex.

Circumflex (a.) Moving or turning round; circuitous.

Circumflex (a.) Curved circularly; -- applied to several arteries of the hip and thigh, to arteries, veins, and a nerve of the shoulder, and to other parts.

Circumflexion (n.) The act of bending, or causing to assume a curved form.

Circumflexion (n.) A winding about; a turning; a circuity; a fold.

Circumfluence (n.) A flowing round on all sides; an inclosing with a fluid.

Circumfluent (a.) Alt. of Circumfluous

Circumfluous (a.) Flowing round; surrounding in the manner of a fluid.

Circumforanean (a.) Alt. of Circumforaneous

Circumforaneous (a.) Going about or abroad; walking or wandering from house to house.

Circumfulgent (a.) Shining around or about.

Circumfuse (v. t.) To pour round; to spread round.

Circumfusile (a.) Capable of being poured or spread round.

Circumfusion (n.) The act of pouring or spreading round; the state of being spread round.

Circumgestation (n.) The act or process of carrying about.

Circumgyrate (v. t. & i.) To roll or turn round; to cause to perform a rotary or circular motion.

Circumgyration (n.) The act of turning, rolling, or whirling round.

Circumgyratory (a.) Moving in a circle; turning round.

Circumgyre (v. i.) To circumgyrate.

Circumincession (n.) The reciprocal existence in each other of the three persons of the Trinity.

Circumjacence (n.) Condition of being circumjacent, or of bordering on every side.

Circumjacent (a.) Lying round; bordering on every side.

Circumjovial (n.) One of the moons or satellites of the planet Jupiter.

Circumlittoral (a.) Adjointing the shore.

Circumlocution (n.) The use of many words to express an idea that might be expressed by few; indirect or roundabout language; a periphrase.

Circumlocutional (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, circumlocutions; periphrastic; circuitous.

Circumlocutory (a.) Characterised by circumlocution; periphrastic.

Circummeridian (a.) About, or near, the meridian.

Circummure (v. t.) To encompass with a wall.

Circumnavigable (a.) Capable of being sailed round.

Circumnavigated (imp. & p. p.) of Circumnavigate

Circumnavigating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumnavigate

Circumnavigate (v. t.) To sail completely round.

Circumnavigation (n.) The act of circumnavigating, or sailing round.

Circumnavigator (n.) One who sails round.

Circumnutate (v. i.) To pass through the stages of circumnutation.

Circumnutation (n.) The successive bowing or bending in different directions of the growing tip of the stems of many plants, especially seen in climbing plants.

Circumpolar (a.) About the pole; -- applied to stars that revolve around the pole without setting; as, circumpolar stars.

Circumposition (n.) The act of placing in a circle, or round about, or the state of being so placed.

Circumrotary (a.) Alt. of Circumrotatory

Circumrotatory (a.) turning, rolling, or whirling round.

Circumrotate (v. t. & i.) To rotate about.

Circumrotation (n.) The act of rolling or revolving round, as a wheel; circumvolution; the state of being whirled round.

Circumscissile (a.) Dehiscing or opening by a transverse fissure extending around (a capsule or pod). See Illust. of Pyxidium.

Circumscribable (a.) Capable of being circumscribed.

Circumscribed (imp. & p. p.) of Circumscribe

Circumscribing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumscribe

Circumscribe (v. t.) to write or engrave around.

Circumscribe (v. t.) To inclose within a certain limit; to hem in; to surround; to bound; to confine; to restrain.

Circumscribe (v. t.) To draw a line around so as to touch at certain points without cutting. See Inscribe, 5.

Circumscriber (n.) One who, or that which, circumscribes.

Circumscriptible (a.) Capable of being circumscribed or limited by bounds.

Circumscription (n.) An inscription written around anything.

Circumscription (n.) The exterior line which determines the form or magnitude of a body; outline; periphery.

Circumscription (n.) The act of limiting, or the state of being limited, by conditions or restraints; bound; confinement; limit.

Circumscriptive (a.) Circumscribing or tending to circumscribe; marcing the limits or form of.

Circumscriptively (adv.) In a limited manner.

Circumscriptly (adv.) In a literal, limited, or narrow manner.

Circumspect (a.) Attentive to all the circumstances of a case or the probable consequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.

Circumspection (n.) Attention to all the facts and circumstances of a case; caution; watchfulness.

Circumspective (a.) Looking around every way; cautious; careful of consequences; watchful of danger.

Circumspectively (adv.) Circumspectly.

Circumspectly (adv.) In a circumspect manner; cautiously; warily.

Circumspectness (n.) Vigilance in guarding against evil from every quarter; caution.

Circumstance (n.) That which attends, or relates to, or in some way affects, a fact or event; an attendant thing or state of things.

Circumstance (n.) An event; a fact; a particular incident.

Circumstance (n.) Circumlocution; detail.

Circumstance (n.) Condition in regard to worldly estate; state of property; situation; surroundings.

Circumstance (v. t.) To place in a particular situation; to supply relative incidents.

Circumstanced (p. a.) Placed in a particular position or condition; situated.

Circumstanced (p. a.) Governed by events or circumstances.

Circumstant (a.) Standing or placed around; surrounding.

Circumstantiable (a.) Capable of being circumstantiated.

Circumstantial (a.) Consisting in, or pertaining to, circumstances or particular incidents.

Circumstantial (a.) Incidental; relating to, but not essential.

Circumstantial (a.) Abounding with circumstances; detailing or exhibiting all the circumstances; minute; particular.

Circumstantial (n.) Something incidental to the main subject, but of less importance; opposed to an essential; -- generally in the plural; as, the circumstantials of religion.

Circumstantiality (n.) The state, characteristic, or quality of being circumstantial; particularity or minuteness of detail.

Circumstantially (adv.) In respect to circumstances; not essentially; accidentally.

Circumstantially (adv.) In every circumstance or particular; minutely.

Circumstantiated (imp. & p. p.) of Circumstantiate

Circumstantiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumstantiate

Circumstantiate (v. t.) To place in particular circumstances; to invest with particular accidents or adjuncts.

Circumstantiate (v. t.) To prove or confirm by circumstances; to enter into details concerning.

Circumterraneous (a.) Being or dwelling around the earth.

Circumundulate (v. t.) To flow round, as waves.

Circumvallate (v. t.) To surround with a rampart or wall.

Circumvallate (a.) Surrounded with a wall; inclosed with a rampart.

Circumvallate (a.) Surrounded by a ridge or elevation; as, the circumvallate papillae, near the base of the tongue.

Circumvallation (n.) The act of surrounding with a wall or rampart.

Circumvallation (n.) A line of field works made around a besieged place and the besieging army, to protect the camp of the besiegers against the attack of an enemy from without.

Circumvection (n.) The act of carrying anything around, or the state of being so carried.

Circumvented (imp. & p. p.) of Circumvent

Circumventing (p. pr. vb. n.) of Circumvent

Circumvent (v. t.) To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; to decieve; to delude; to get around.

Circumvention (n.) The act of prevailing over another by arts, address, or fraud; deception; fraud; imposture; delusion.

Circumventive (a.) Tending to circumvent; deceiving by artifices; deluding.

Circumventor (n.) One who circumvents; one who gains his purpose by cunning.

Circumvest (v. t.) To cover round, as with a garment; to invest.

Circumvolant (a.) Flying around.

Circumvolation (n.) The act of flying round.

Circumvolution (n.) The act of rolling round; the state of being rolled.

Circumvolution (n.) A thing rolled round another.

Circumvolution (n.) A roundabout procedure; a circumlocution.

Circumvolved (imp. & p. p.) of Circumvolve

Circumvolving (p. pr. vb. n.) of Circumvolve

Circumvolve (v. t.) To roll round; to cause to revolve; to put into a circular motion.

Circumvolve (v. i.) To roll round; to revolve.

Circuses (pl. ) of Circus

Circus (n.) A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats of wood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and divided lengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track or course was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and public shows.

Circus (n.) A circular inclosure for the exhibition of feats of horsemanship, acrobatic displays, etc. Also, the company of performers, with their equipage.

Circus (n.) Circuit; space; inclosure.

Cirl bunting () A European bunting (Emberiza cirlus).

Cirque (n.) A circle; a circus; a circular erection or arrangement of objects.

Cirque (n.) A kind of circular valley in the side of a mountain, walled around by precipices of great height.

Cirrate (a.) Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ.

Cirrhiferous (a.) See Cirriferous.

Cirrhose (a.) Same as Cirrose.

Cirrhosis (n.) A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller in size and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimes applied to similar changes in other organs, caused by increase in the fibrous framework and decrease in the proper substance of the organ.

Cirrhotic (a.) Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as, cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver.

Cirrhous (a.) See Cirrose.

Cirrhus (n.) Same as Cirrus.

Cirri (n. pl.) See Cirrus.

Cirriferous (a.) Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.

Cirriform (a.) Formed like a cirrus or tendril; -- said of appendages of both animals and plants.

Cirrigerous (a.) Having curled locks of hair; supporting cirri, or hairlike appendages.

Cirrigrade (a.) Moving or moved by cirri, or hairlike appendages.

Cirriped (n.) One of the Cirripedia.

Cirripedia (n. pl.) An order of Crustacea including the barnacles. When adult, they have a calcareous shell composed of several pieces. From the opening of the shell the animal throws out a group of curved legs, looking like a delicate curl, whence the name of the group. See Anatifa.

Cirrobranchiata (n. pl.) A division of Mollusca having slender, cirriform appendages near the mouth; the Scaphopoda.

Cirro-cumulus (n.) See under Cloud.

Cirrose (a.) Bearing a tendril or tendrils; as, a cirrose leaf.

Cirrose (a.) Resembling a tendril or cirrus.

Cirrostomi (n. pl.) The lowest group of vertebrates; -- so called from the cirri around the mouth; the Leptocardia. See Amphioxus.

Cirro-stratus (n.) See under Cloud.

Cirrous (a.) Cirrose.

Cirrous (a.) Tufted; -- said of certain feathers of birds.

Cirri (pl. ) of Cirrus

Cirrus (n.) A tendril or clasper.

Cirrus (n.) A soft tactile appendage of the mantle of many Mollusca, and of the parapodia of Annelida. Those near the head of annelids are Tentacular cirri; those of the last segment are caudal cirri.

Cirrus (n.) The jointed, leglike organs of Cirripedia. See Annelida, and Polychaeta.

Cirrus (n.) The external male organ of trematodes and some other worms, and of certain Mollusca.

Cirrus (n.) See under Cloud.

Cirsocele (n.) The varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein.

Cirsoid (a.) Varicose.

Cirsotomy (n.) Any operation for the removal of varices by incision.

Cis- () A Latin preposition, sometimes used as a prefix in English words, and signifying on this side.

Cisalpine (a.) On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is, on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine.

Cisatlantic (a.) On this side of the Atlantic Ocean; -- used of the eastern or the western side, according to the standpoint of the writer.

Cisco (n.) The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of the Great Lakes of North America. The name is also applied to C. Hoyi, a related species of Lake Michigan.

Ciselure (n.) The process of chasing on metals; also, the work thus chased.

Cisleithan (a.) On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian.

Cismontane (a.) On this side of the mountains. See under Ultramontane.

Cispadane (a.) On the hither side of the river Po with reference to Rome; that is, on the south side.

Cissoid (n.) A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving two celebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a plane angle, and to construct two geometrical means between two given straight lines.

Cist (n.) A box or chest. Specifically: (a) A bronze receptacle, round or oval, frequently decorated with engravings on the sides and cover, and with feet, handles, etc., of decorative castings. (b) A cinerary urn. See Illustration in Appendix.

Cist (n.) See Cyst.

Cisted (a.) Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted.

Cistercian (n.) A monk of the prolific branch of the Benedictine Order, established in 1098 at Citeaux, in France, by Robert, abbot of Molesme. For two hundred years the Cistercians followed the rule of St. Benedict in all its rigor.

Cistercian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cistercians.

Cistern (n.) An artificial reservoir or tank for holding water, beer, or other liquids.

Cistern (n.) A natural reservoir; a hollow place containing water.

Cistic (a.) See Cystic.

Cit (n.) A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- used contemptuously.

Citable (a.) Capable of being cited.

Citadel (n.) A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city and fortifications, and intended as a final point of defense.

Cital (n.) Summons to appear, as before a judge.

Cital (n.) Citation; quotation

Citation (n.) An official summons or notice given to a person to appear; the paper containing such summons or notice.

Citation (n.) The act of citing a passage from a book, or from another person, in his own words; also, the passage or words quoted; quotation.

Citation (n.) Enumeration; mention; as, a citation of facts.

Citation (n.) A reference to decided cases, or books of authority, to prove a point in law.

Citator (n.) One who cites.

Citatory (a.) Having the power or form of a citation; as, letters citatory.

Cited (imp. & p. p.) of Cite

Citing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cite

Cite (v. t.) To call upon officially or authoritatively to appear, as before a court; to summon.

Cite (v. t.) To urge; to enjoin.

Cite (v. t.) To quote; to repeat, as a passage from a book, or the words of another.

Cite (v. t.) To refer to or specify, as for support, proof, illustration, or confirmation.

Cite (v. t.) To bespeak; to indicate.

Cite (v. t.) To notify of a proceeding in court.

Citer (n.) One who cites.

Citess (n.) A city woman

Cithara (n.) An ancient instrument resembling the harp.

Citharistic (a.) Pertaining, or adapted, to the cithara.

Cithern (n.) See Cittern.

Citicism (n.) The manners of a cit or citizen.

Citied (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a city.

Citied (a.) Containing, or covered with, cities.

Citified (a.) Aping, or having, the manners of a city.

Citigradae (n. pl.) A suborder of Arachnoidea, including the European tarantula and the wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and their allies, which capture their prey by rapidly running and jumping. See Wolf spider.

Citigrade (a.) Pertaining to the Citigradae.

Citigrade (n.) One of the Citigradae.

Citiner (n.) One who is born or bred in a city; a citizen.

Citizen (n.) One who enjoys the freedom and privileges of a city; a freeman of a city, as distinguished from a foreigner, or one not entitled to its franchises.

Citizen (n.) An inhabitant of a city; a townsman.

Citizen (n.) A person, native or naturalized, of either sex, who owes allegiance to a government, and is entitled to reciprocal protection from it.

Citizen (n.) One who is domiciled in a country, and who is a citizen, though neither native nor naturalized, in such a sense that he takes his legal status from such country.

Citizen (a.) Having the condition or qualities of a citizen, or of citizens; as, a citizen soldiery.

Citizen (a.) Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a city; characteristic of citizens; effeminate; luxurious.

Citizeness (n.) A female citizen.

Citizenship (n.) The state of being a citizen; the status of a citizen.

Citole (n.) A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer.

Citraconic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or having certain characteristics of, citric and aconitic acids.

Citrate (n.) A salt of citric acid.

Citric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as, citric acid.

Citrination (n.) The process by which anything becomes of the color of a lemon; esp., in alchemy, the state of perfection in the philosopher's stone indicated by its assuming a deep yellow color.

Citrine (a.) Like a citron or lemon; of a lemon color; greenish yellow.

Citrine (n.) A yellow, pellucid variety of quartz.

Citron (n.) A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantly aromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce.

Citron (n.) A citron tree.

Citron (n.) A citron melon.

Citrus (n.) A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc., originally natives of southern Asia.

Cittern (n.) An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and played with a quill or plectrum.

Cittern-head (n.) Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a cittern usually ended with a carved head.

Cities (pl. ) of City

City (n.) A large town.

City (n.) A corporate town; in the United States, a town or collective body of inhabitants, incorporated and governed by a mayor and aldermen or a city council consisting of a board of aldermen and a common council; in Great Britain, a town corporate, which is or has been the seat of a bishop, or the capital of his see.

City (n.) The collective body of citizens, or inhabitants of a city.

City (a.) Of or pertaining to a city.

Cive (n.) Same as Chive.

Civet (n.) A substance, of the consistence of butter or honey, taken from glands in the anal pouch of the civet (Viverra civetta). It is of clear yellowish or brownish color, of a strong, musky odor, offensive when undiluted, but agreeable when a small portion is mixed with another substance. It is used as a perfume.

Civet (n.) The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- called also civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, and of a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots on the body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. The name is also applied to other species.

Civet (v. t.) To scent or perfume with civet.

Civic (a.) Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to man as a member of society, or to civil affairs.

Civicism (n.) The principle of civil government.

Civics (n.) The science of civil government.

Civil (a.) Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state.

Civil (a.) Subject to government; reduced to order; civilized; not barbarous; -- said of the community.

Civil (a.) Performing the duties of a citizen; obedient to government; -- said of an individual.

Civil (a.) Having the manners of one dwelling in a city, as opposed to those of savages or rustics; polite; courteous; complaisant; affable.

Civil (a.) Pertaining to civic life and affairs, in distinction from military, ecclesiastical, or official state.

Civil (a.) Relating to rights and remedies sought by action or suit distinct from criminal proceedings.

Civilian (n.) One skilled in the civil law.

Civilian (n.) A student of the civil law at a university or college.

Civilian (n.) One whose pursuits are those of civil life, not military or clerical.

Civilist (n.) A civilian.

Civilities (pl. ) of Civillty

Civillty (n.) The state of society in which the relations and duties of a citizen are recognized and obeyed; a state of civilization.

Civillty (n.) A civil office, or a civil process

Civillty (n.) Courtesy; politeness; kind attention; good breeding; a polite act or expression.

Civilizable (a.) Capable of being civilized.

Civilization (n.) The act of civilizing, or the state of being civilized; national culture; refinement.

Civilization (n.) Rendering a criminal process civil.

Civilized (imp. & p. p.) of Civilize

Civilizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Civilize

Civilize (v. t.) To reclaim from a savage state; to instruct in the rules and customs of civilization; to educate; to refine.

Civilize (v. t.) To admit as suitable to a civilized state.

Civilized (a.) Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts, learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated.

Civilizer (n.) One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize.

Civily (adv.) In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges; politely; courteously; in a well bred manner.

Civism (n.) State of citizenship.

Cizar (v. i.) To clip with scissors.

Cizars (n. pl.) Scissors.

Cize (n.) Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size.

Clabber (n.) Milk curdled so as to become thick.

Clabber (v. i.) To become clabber; to lopper.

Clachan (n.) A small village containing a church.

Clacked (imp. & p. p.) of Clack

Clacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clack

Clack (n.) To make a sudden, sharp noise, or a succesion of such noises, as by striking an object, or by collision of parts; to rattle; to click.

Clack (n.) To utter words rapidly and continually, or with abruptness; to let the tongue run.

Clack (v. t.) To cause to make a sudden, sharp noise, or succession of noises; to click.

Clack (v. t.) To utter rapidly and inconsiderately.

Clack (v. t.) A sharp, abrupt noise, or succession of noises, made by striking an object.

Clack (v. t.) Anything that causes a clacking noise, as the clapper of a mill, or a clack valve.

Clack (v. t.) Continual or importunate talk; prattle; prating.

Clacker (n.) One who clacks; that which clacks; especially, the clapper of a mill.

Clacker (n.) A claqueur. See Claqueur.

Clad (v.t) To clothe.

Clad () imp. & p. p. of Clothe.

Cladocera (n. pl.) An order of the Entomostraca.

Cladophyll (n.) A special branch, resembling a leaf, as in the apparent foliage of the broom (Ruscus) and of the common cultivated smilax (Myrsiphillum).

Claggy (a.) Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings.

Claik (n.) See Clake.

Claimed (imp. & p. p.) of Claim

Claiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Claim

Claim (v./.) To ask for, or seek to obtain, by virtue of authority, right, or supposed right; to challenge as a right; to demand as due.

Claim (v./.) To proclaim.

Claim (v./.) To call or name.

Claim (v./.) To assert; to maintain.

Claim (v. i.) To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to have a claim.

Claim (n.) A demand of a right or supposed right; a calling on another for something due or supposed to be due; an assertion of a right or fact.

Claim (n.) A right to claim or demand something; a title to any debt, privilege, or other thing in possession of another; also, a title to anything which another should give or concede to, or confer on, the claimant.

Claim (n.) The thing claimed or demanded; that (as land) to which any one intends to establish a right; as a settler's claim; a miner's claim.

Claim (n.) A loud call.

Claimable (a.) Capable of being claimed.

Claimant (n.) One who claims; one who asserts a right or title; a claimer.

Claimer (n.) One who claims; a claimant.

Claimless (a.) Having no claim.

Clair-obscur (n.) See Chiaroscuro.

Clairvoyance (n.) A power, attributed to some persons while in a mesmeric state, of discering objects not perceptible by the senses in their normal condition.

Clairvoyant (a.) Pertaining to clairvoyance; discerning objects while in a mesmeric state which are not present to the senses.

Clairvoyant (n.) One who is able, when in a mesmeric state, to discern objects not present to the senses.

Clake (n.) Alt. of Claik

Claik (n.) The bernicle goose; -- called also clack goose.

Clam (v. t.) A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that are edible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam (Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima), and other species of the United States. The name is said to have been given originally to the Tridacna gigas, a huge East Indian bivalve.

Clam (v. t.) Strong pinchers or forceps.

Clam (v. t.) A kind of vise, usually of wood.

Clammed (imp. & p. p.) of Clam

Clamming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clam

Clam (v. t.) To clog, as with glutinous or viscous matter.

Clam (v. i.) To be moist or glutinous; to stick; to adhere.

Clam (n.) Claminess; moisture.

Clam (n.) A crash or clangor made by ringing all the bells of a chime at once.

Clam (v. t. & i.) To produce, in bell ringing, a clam or clangor; to cause to clang.

Clamant (a.) Crying earnestly, beseeching clamorously.

Clamation (n.) The act of crying out.

Clamatores (n. pl.) A division of passerine birds in which the vocal muscles are but little developed, so that they lack the power of singing.

Clamatorial (a.) Like or pertaining to the Clamatores.

Clambake (n.) The backing or steaming of clams on heated stones, between layers of seaweed; hence, a picnic party, gathered on such an occasion.

Clambered (imp. & p. p.) of Clamber

Clambering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clamber

Clamber (v. i.) To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also used figuratively.

Clamber (n.) The act of clambering.

Clamber (v. t.) To ascend by climbing with difficulty.

Clamjamphrie (n.) Low, worthless people; the rabble.

Clammily (adv.) In a clammy manner.

Clamminess (n.) State of being clammy or viscous.

Clammy (Compar.) Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft and sticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a cold perspiration.

Clamor (n.) A great outcry or vociferation; loud and continued shouting or exclamation.

Clamor (n.) Any loud and continued noise.

Clamor (n.) A continued expression of dissatisfaction or discontent; a popular outcry.

Clamored (imp. & p. p.) of Clamor

Clamoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clamor

Clamor (v. t.) To salute loudly.

Clamor (v. t.) To stun with noise.

Clamor (v. t.) To utter loudly or repeatedly; to shout.

Clamor (v. i.) To utter loud sounds or outcries; to vociferate; to complain; to make importunate demands.

Clamorer (n.) One who clamors.

Clamorous (a.) Speaking and repeating loud words; full of clamor; calling or demanding loudly or urgently; vociferous; noisy; bawling; loud; turbulent.

Clamp (n.) Something rigid that holds fast or binds things together; a piece of wood or metal, used to hold two or more pieces together.

Clamp (n.) An instrument with a screw or screws by which work is held in its place or two parts are temporarily held together.

Clamp (n.) A piece of wood placed across another, or inserted into another, to bind or strengthen.

Clamp (n.) One of a pair of movable pieces of lead, or other soft material, to cover the jaws of a vise and enable it to grasp without bruising.

Clamp (n.) A thick plank on the inner part of a ship's side, used to sustain the ends of beams.

Clamp (n.) A mass of bricks heaped up to be burned; or of ore for roasting, or of coal for coking.

Clamp (n.) A mollusk. See Clam.

Clamped (imp. & p. p.) of Clamp

Clamping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clamp

Clamp (v. t.) To fasten with a clamp or clamps; to apply a clamp to; to place in a clamp.

Clamp (v. t.) To cover, as vegetables, with earth.

Clamp (n.) A heavy footstep; a tramp.

Clamp (v. i.) To tread heavily or clumsily; to clump.

Clamper (n.) An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot or shoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper.

Clan (n.) A tribe or collection of families, united under a chieftain, regarded as having the same common ancestor, and bearing the same surname; as, the clan of Macdonald.

Clan (n.) A clique; a sect, society, or body of persons; esp., a body of persons united by some common interest or pursuit; -- sometimes used contemptuously.

Clancular (a.) Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed.

Clancularly (adv.) privately; secretly.

Clandestine (a.) Conducted with secrecy; withdrawn from public notice, usually for an evil purpose; kept secret; hidden; private; underhand; as, a clandestine marriage.

Clandestinity (n.) Privacy or secrecy.

Clanged (imp. & p. p.) of Clang

Clanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clang

Clang (v. t.) To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound.

Clang (v. i.) To give out a clang; to resound.

Clang (n.) A loud, ringing sound, like that made by metallic substances when clanged or struck together.

Clang (n.) Quality of tone.

Clangor (v. t.) A sharp, harsh, ringing sound.

Clangorous (a.) Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound.

Clangous (a.) Making a clang, or a ringing metallic sound.

Clanjamfrie (n.) Same as Clamjamphrie.

Clank (n.) A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallic or other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or less resounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound than clink.

Clanked (imp. & p. p.) of Clank

Clanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clank

Clank (v. t.) To cause to sound with a clank; as, the prisoners clank their chains.

Clank (v. i.) To sound with a clank.

Clankless (a.) Without a clank.

Clannish (a.) Of or pertaining to a clan; closely united, like a clan; disposed to associate only with one's clan or clique; actuated by the traditions, prejudices, habits, etc., of a clan.

Clanship (n.) A state of being united together as in a clan; an association under a chieftain.

Clansmen (pl. ) of Clansman

Clansman (n.) One belonging to the same clan with another.

Clapped (imp. & p. p.) of Clap

Clapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clap

Clap (v. t.) To strike; to slap; to strike, or strike together, with a quick motion, so, as to make a sharp noise; as, to clap one's hands; a clapping of wings.

Clap (v. t.) To thrust, drive, put, or close, in a hasty or abrupt manner; -- often followed by to, into, on, or upon.

Clap (v. t.) To manifest approbation of, by striking the hands together; to applaud; as, to clap a performance.

Clap (v. t.) To express contempt or derision.

Clap (v. i.) To knock, as at a door.

Clap (v. i.) To strike the hands together in applause.

Clap (v. i.) To come together suddenly with noise.

Clap (v. i.) To enter with alacrity and briskness; -- with to or into.

Clap (v. i.) To talk noisily; to chatter loudly.

Clap (n.) A loud noise made by sudden collision; a bang.

Clap (n.) A burst of sound; a sudden explosion.

Clap (n.) A single, sudden act or motion; a stroke; a blow.

Clap (n.) A striking of hands to express approbation.

Clap (n.) Noisy talk; chatter.

Clap (n.) The nether part of the beak of a hawk.

Clap (n.) Gonorrhea.

Clapboard (n.) A narrow board, thicker at one edge than at the other; -- used for weatherboarding the outside of houses.

Clapboard (n.) A stave for a cask.

Clapboard (v. t.) To cover with clapboards; as, to clapboard the sides of a house.

Clapbread (n.) Alt. of Clapcake

Clapcake (n.) Oatmeal cake or bread clapped or beaten till it is thin.

Clape (n.) A bird; the flicker.

Clapper (n.) A person who claps.

Clapper (n.) That which strikes or claps, as the tongue of a bell, or the piece of wood that strikes a mill hopper, etc. See Illust. of Bell.

Clapper (n.) A rabbit burrow.

Clapperclaw (v. t.) To fight and scratch.

Clapperclaw (v. t.) To abuse with the tongue; to revile; to scold.

Claps (v. t.) Variant of Clasp

Claptrap (n.) A contrivance for clapping in theaters.

Claptrap (n.) A trick or device to gain applause; humbug.

Claptrap (a.) Contrived for the purpose of making a show, or gaining applause; deceptive; unreal.

Claque (n.) A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical exhibition.

Claqueur (n.) One of the claque employed to applaud at a theater.

Clare (n.) A nun of the order of St. Clare.

Clarence (n.) A close four-wheeled carriage, with one seat inside, and a seat for the driver.

Clarenceux (n.) Alt. of Clarencieux

Clarencieux (n.) See King-at-arms.

Clarendon (n.) A style of type having a narrow and heave face. It is made in all sizes.

Clare-obscure (n.) See Chiaroscuro.

Claret (n.) The name first given in England to the red wines of Medoc, in France, and afterwards extended to all the red Bordeaux wines. The name is also given to similar wines made in the United States.

Claribella (n.) A soft, sweet stop, or set of open wood pipes in an organ.

Clarichord (n.) A musical instrument, formerly in use, in form of a spinet; -- called also manichord and clavichord.

Clarification (n.) The act or process of making clear or transparent, by freeing visible impurities; as, the clarification of wine.

Clarification (n.) The act of freeing from obscurities.

Clarifier (n.) That which clarifies.

Clarifier (n.) A vessel in which the process of clarification is conducted; as, the clarifier in sugar works.

Clarified (imp. & p. p.) of Clarify

Clarifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clarify

Clarify (v. t.) To make clear or bright by freeing from feculent matter; to defecate; to fine; -- said of liquids, as wine or sirup.

Clarify (v. t.) To make clear; to free from obscurities; to brighten or illuminate.

Clarify (v. t.) To glorify.

Clarify (v. i.) To grow or become clear or transparent; to become free from feculent impurities, as wine or other liquid under clarification.

Clarify (v. i.) To grow clear or bright; to clear up.

Clarigate (v. i.) To declare war with certain ceremonies.

Clarinet (n.) A wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fuller tone than the oboe, which has a double reed. It is the leading instrument in a military band.

Clarino (n.) A reed stop in an organ.

Clarion (n.) A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill.

Clarionet (n.) See Clarinet.

Clarisonus (a.) Having a clear sound.

Claritude (n.) Clearness; splendor.

Clarity (n.) Clearness; brightness; splendor.

Claro-obscuro (n.) See Chiaroscuro.

Clarre (n.) Wine with a mixture of honey and species.

Clart (v. t.) To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc.

Clarty (a.) Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty.

Clary (v. i.) To make a loud or shrill noise.

Clary (n.) A plant (Salvia sclarea) of the Sage family, used in flavoring soups.

Clashed (imp. & p. p.) of Clash

Clashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clash

Clash (v. i.) To make a noise by striking against something; to dash noisily together.

Clash (v. i.) To meet in opposition; to act in a contrary direction; to come onto collision; to interfere.

Clash (v. t.) To strike noisily against or together.

Clash (n.) A loud noise resulting from collision; a noisy collision of bodies; a collision.

Clash (n.) Opposition; contradiction; as between differing or contending interests, views, purposes, etc.

Clashingly (adv.) With clashing.

Clasped (imp. & p. p.) of Clasp

Clasping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clasp

Clasp (v. t.) To shut or fasten together with, or as with, a clasp; to shut or fasten (a clasp, or that which fastens with a clasp).

Clasp (v. t.) To inclose and hold in the hand or with the arms; to grasp; to embrace.

Clasp (v. t.) To surround and cling to; to entwine about.

Clasp (n.) An adjustable catch, bent plate, or hook, for holding together two objects or the parts of anything, as the ends of a belt, the covers of a book, etc.

Clasp (n.) A close embrace; a throwing of the arms around; a grasping, as with the hand.

Clasper (n.) One who, or that which, clasps, as a tendril.

Clasper (n.) One of a pair of organs used by the male for grasping the female among many of the Crustacea.

Clasper (n.) One of a pair of male copulatory organs, developed on the anterior side of the ventral fins of sharks and other elasmobranchs. See Illust. of Chimaera.

Claspered (a.) Furnished with tendrils.

Class (n.) A group of individuals ranked together as possessing common characteristics; as, the different classes of society; the educated class; the lower classes.

Class (n.) A number of students in a school or college, of the same standing, or pursuing the same studies.

Class (n.) A comprehensive division of animate or inanimate objects, grouped together on account of their common characteristics, in any classification in natural science, and subdivided into orders, families, tribes, genera, etc.

Class (n.) A set; a kind or description, species or variety.

Class (n.) One of the sections into which a church or congregation is divided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader.

Classed (imp. & p. p.) of Class

Classing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Class

Class (n.) To arrange in classes; to classify or refer to some class; as, to class words or passages.

Class (n.) To divide into classes, as students; to form into, or place in, a class or classes.

Class (v. i.) To grouped or classed.

Classible (a.) Capable of being classed.

Classic (n.) Alt. of Classical

Classical (n.) Of or relating to the first class or rank, especially in literature or art.

Classical (n.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks and Romans, esp. to Greek or Roman authors of the highest rank, or of the period when their best literature was produced; of or pertaining to places inhabited by the ancient Greeks and Romans, or rendered famous by their deeds.

Classical (n.) Conforming to the best authority in literature and art; chaste; pure; refined; as, a classical style.

Classic (n.) A work of acknowledged excellence and authority, or its author; -- originally used of Greek and Latin works or authors, but now applied to authors and works of a like character in any language.

Classic (n.) One learned in the literature of Greece and Rome, or a student of classical literature.

Classicalism (n.) A classical idiom, style, or expression; a classicism.

Classicalism (n.) Adherence to what are supposed or assumed to be the classical canons of art.

Classicalist (n.) One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art.

Classicality (n.) Alt. of Classicalness

Classicalness (n.) The quality of being classical.

Classically (adv.) In a classical manner; according to the manner of classical authors.

Classically (adv.) In the manner of classes; according to a regular order of classes or sets.

Classicism (n.) A classic idiom or expression; a classicalism.

Classicist (n.) One learned in the classics; an advocate for the classics.

Classifiable (a.) Capable of being classified.

Classific (a.) Characterizing a class or classes; relating to classification.

Classification (n.) The act of forming into a class or classes; a distibution into groups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some common relations or affinities.

Classificatory (a.) Pertaining to classification; admitting of classification.

Classifier (n.) One who classifies.

Classified (imp. & pp.) of Classify

Classifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Classify

Classify (v. t.) To distribute into classes; to arrange according to a system; to arrange in sets according to some method founded on common properties or characters.

Classes (pl. ) of Classis

Classis (n.) A class or order; sort; kind.

Classis (n.) An ecclesiastical body or judicatory in certain churches, as the Reformed Dutch. It is intermediate between the consistory and the synod, and corresponds to the presbytery in the Presbyterian church.

Classmen (pl. ) of Classman

Classman (n.) A member of a class; a classmate.

Classman (n.) A candidate for graduation in arts who is placed in an honor class, as opposed to a passman, who is not classified.

Classmate (n.) One who is in the same class with another, as at school or college.

Clastic (a.) Pertaining to what may be taken apart; as, clastic anatomy (of models).

Clastic (a.) Fragmental; made up of brok/ fragments; as, sandstone is a clastic rock.

Clathrate (a.) Shaped like a lattice; cancellate.

Clathrate (a.) Having the surface marked with raised lines resembling a lattice, as many shells.

Clattered (imp. & p. p.) of Clatter

Clattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clatter

Clatter (v. i.) To make a rattling sound by striking hard bodies together; to make a succession of abrupt, rattling sounds.

Clatter (v. i.) To talk fast and noisily; to rattle with the tongue.

Clatter (v. t.) To make a rattling noise with.

Clatter (n.) A rattling noise, esp. that made by the collision of hard bodies; also, any loud, abrupt sound; a repetition of abrupt sounds.

Clatter (n.) Commotion; disturbance.

Clatter (n.) Rapid, noisy talk; babble; chatter.

Clatterer (n.) One who clatters.

Clatteringly (adv.) With clattering.

Claude Lorraine glass () A slightly convex mirror, commonly of black glass, used as a toy for viewing the reflected landscape.

Claudent (a.) Shutting; confining; drawing together; as, a claudent muscle.

Claudicant (a.) Limping.

Claudication (n.) A halting or limping.

Clause (n.) A separate portion of a written paper, paragraph, or sentence; an article, stipulation, or proviso, in a legal document.

Clause (n.) A subordinate portion or a subdivision of a sentence containing a subject and its predicate.

Clause (n.) See Letters clause / close, under Letter.

Claustral (a.) Cloistral.

Claustra (pl. ) of Claustrum

Claustrum (n.) A thin lamina of gray matter in each cerebral hemisphere of the brain of man.

Clausular (n.) Consisting of, or having, clauses.

Clausure (n.) The act of shutting up or confining; confinement.

Clavate (a.) Alt. of Clavated

Clavated (a.) Club-shaped; having the form of a club; growing gradually thicker toward the top. [See Illust. of Antennae.]

Clave () imp. of Cleave.

Clavecin (n.) The harpsichord.

Clavel (n.) See Clevis.

Clavellate (a.) See Clavate.

Clavellated (a.) Said of potash, probably in reference to its having been obtained from billets of wood by burning.

Claver (n.) See Clover.

Claver (n.) Frivolous or nonsensical talk; prattle; chattering.

Clavichord (n.) A keyed stringed instrument, now superseded by the pianoforte. See Clarichord.

Clavicle (n.) The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, or shoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone. In man each clavicle is shaped like the letter /, and is situated just above the first rib on either side of the neck. In birds the two clavicles are united ventrally, forming the merrythought, or wishbone.

Clavicorn (a.) Having club-shaped antennae. See Antennae

Clavicorn (n.) One of the Clavicornes.

Clavicornes (n. pl.) A group of beetles having club-shaped antennae.

Clavicular (a.) Of or pertaining to the clavicle.

Clavier (n.) The keyboard of an organ, pianoforte, or harmonium.

Claviform (a.) Club-shaped; clavate.

Claviger (n.) One who carries the keys of any place.

Claviger (n.) One who carries a club; a club bearer.

Clavigerous (a.) Bearing a club or a key.

Claves (pl. ) of Clavis

Clavises (pl. ) of Clavis

Clavis (n.) A key; a glossary.

Clavus (n.) A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn.

Clavies (pl. ) of Clavy

Clavy (n.) A mantelpiece.

Claw (n.) A sharp, hooked nail, as of a beast or bird.

Claw (n.) The whole foot of an animal armed with hooked nails; the pinchers of a lobster, crab, etc.

Claw (n.) Anything resembling the claw of an animal, as the curved and forked end of a hammer for drawing nails.

Claw (n.) A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the base of petals of the pink.

Clawed (imp. & p. p.) of Claw

Clawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Claw

Claw (n.) To pull, tear, or scratch with, or as with, claws or nails.

Claw (n.) To relieve from some uneasy sensation, as by scratching; to tickle; hence, to flatter; to court.

Claw (n.) To rail at; to scold.

Claw (v. i.) To scrape, scratch, or dig with a claw, or with the hand as a claw.

Clawback (n.) A flatterer or sycophant.

Clawback (a.) Flattering; sycophantic.

Clawback (v. t.) To flatter.

Clawed (a.) Furnished with claws.

Clawless (a.) Destitute of claws.

Clay (n.) A soft earth, which is plastic, or may be molded with the hands, consisting of hydrous silicate of aluminium. It is the result of the wearing down and decomposition, in part, of rocks containing aluminous minerals, as granite. Lime, magnesia, oxide of iron, and other ingredients, are often present as impurities.

Clay (n.) Earth in general, as representing the elementary particles of the human body; hence, the human body as formed from such particles.

Clayed (imp. & p. p.) of Clay

Claying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clay

Clay (v. t.) To cover or manure with clay.

Clay (v. t.) To clarify by filtering through clay, as sugar.

Clay-brained (a.) Stupid.

Clayes (n. pl.) Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers, to cover lodgments.

Clayey (a.) Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay; like clay.

Clayish (a.) Partaking of the nature of clay, or containing particles of it.

Claymore (n.) A large two-handed sword used formerly by the Scottish Highlanders.

Claytonia (n.) An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; -- sometimes called spring beauty.

Cleading (n.) A jacket or outer covering of wood, etc., to prevent radiation of heat, as from the boiler, cylinder. etc., of a steam engine.

Cleading (n.) The planking or boarding of a shaft, cofferdam, etc.

Clean (superl.) Free from dirt or filth; as, clean clothes.

Clean (superl.) Free from that which is useless or injurious; without defects; as, clean land; clean timber.

Clean (superl.) Free from awkwardness; not bungling; adroit; dexterous; as, aclean trick; a clean leap over a fence.

Clean (superl.) Free from errors and vulgarisms; as, a clean style.

Clean (superl.) Free from restraint or neglect; complete; entire.

Clean (superl.) Free from moral defilement; sinless; pure.

Clean (superl.) Free from ceremonial defilement.

Clean (superl.) Free from that which is corrupting to the morals; pure in tone; healthy.

Clean (superl.) Well-proportioned; shapely; as, clean limbs.

Clean (adv.) Without limitation or remainder; quite; perfectly; wholly; entirely.

Clean (adv.) Without miscarriage; not bunglingly; dexterously.

Cleaned (imp. & p. p.) of Clean

Cleaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clean

Clean (a.) To render clean; to free from whatever is foul, offensive, or extraneous; to purify; to cleanse.

Clean-cut (a.) See Clear-cut.

Cleaner (n.) One who, or that which, cleans.

Cleaning (n.) The act of making clean.

Cleaning (n.) The afterbirth of cows, ewes, etc.

Cleanlily (adv.) In a cleanly manner.

Clean-limbed (a.) With well-proportioned, unblemished limbs; as, a clean-limbed young fellow.

Cleanliness (n.) State of being cleanly; neatness of person or dress.

Cleanly (superl.) Habitually clean; pure; innocent.

Cleanly (superl.) Cleansing; fitted to remove moisture; dirt, etc.

Cleanly (superl.) Adroit; skillful; dexterous; artful.

Cleanly (adv.) In a clean manner; neatly.

Cleanly (adv.) Innocently; without stain.

Cleanly (adv.) Adroitly; dexterously.

Cleanness (n.) The state or quality of being clean.

Cleanness (n.) Purity of life or language; freedom from licentious courses.

Cleansable (a.) Capable of being cleansed.

Cleansed (imp. & p. p.) of Cleanse

Cleansing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cleanse

Cleanse (v. t.) To render clean; to free from fith, pollution, infection, guilt, etc.; to clean.

Cleanser (n.) One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent.

Clean-timbered (a.) Well-proportioned; symmetrical.

Clear (superl.) Free from opaqueness; transparent; bright; light; luminous; unclouded.

Clear (superl.) Free from ambiguity or indistinctness; lucid; perspicuous; plain; evident; manifest; indubitable.

Clear (superl.) Able to perceive clearly; keen; acute; penetrating; discriminating; as, a clear intellect; a clear head.

Clear (superl.) Not clouded with passion; serene; cheerful.

Clear (superl.) Easily or distinctly heard; audible; canorous.

Clear (superl.) Without mixture; entirely pure; as, clear sand.

Clear (superl.) Without defect or blemish, such as freckles or knots; as, a clear complexion; clear lumber.

Clear (superl.) Free from guilt or stain; unblemished.

Clear (superl.) Without diminution; in full; net; as, clear profit.

Clear (superl.) Free from impediment or obstruction; unobstructed; as, a clear view; to keep clear of debt.

Clear (superl.) Free from embarrassment; detention, etc.

Clear (n.) Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; the distance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the space between walls; as, a room ten feet square in the clear.

Clear (adv.) In a clear manner; plainly.

Clear (adv.) Without limitation; wholly; quite; entirely; as, to cut a piece clear off.

Cleared (imp. & p. p.) of Clear

Clearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clear

Clear (v. t.) To render bright, transparent, or undimmed; to free from clouds.

Clear (v. t.) To free from impurities; to clarify; to cleanse.

Clear (v. t.) To free from obscurity or ambiguity; to relive of perplexity; to make perspicuous.

Clear (v. t.) To render more quick or acute, as the understanding; to make perspicacious.

Clear (v. t.) To free from impediment or incumbrance, from defilement, or from anything injurious, useless, or offensive; as, to clear land of trees or brushwood, or from stones; to clear the sight or the voice; to clear one's self from debt; -- often used with of, off, away, or out.

Clear (v. t.) To free from the imputation of guilt; to justify, vindicate, or acquit; -- often used with from before the thing imputed.

Clear (v. t.) To leap or pass by, or over, without touching or failure; as, to clear a hedge; to clear a reef.

Clear (v. t.) To gain without deduction; to net.

Clear (v. i.) To become free from clouds or fog; to become fair; -- often followed by up, off, or away.

Clear (v. i.) To disengage one's self from incumbrances, distress, or entanglements; to become free.

Clear (v. i.) To make exchanges of checks and bills, and settle balances, as is done in a clearing house.

Clear (v. i.) To obtain a clearance; as, the steamer cleared for Liverpool to-day.

Clearage (n.) The act of removing anything; clearance.

Clearance (n.) The act of clearing; as, to make a thorough clearance.

Clearance (n.) A certificate that a ship or vessel has been cleared at the customhouse; permission to sail.

Clearance (n.) Clear or net profit.

Clearance (n.) The distance by which one object clears another, as the distance between the piston and cylinder head at the end of a stroke in a steam engine, or the least distance between the point of a cogwheel tooth and the bottom of a space between teeth of a wheel with which it engages.

Clear-cut (a.) Having a sharp, distinct outline, like that of a cameo.

Clear-cut (a.) Concisely and distinctly expressed.

Clearedness (n.) The quality of being cleared.

Clearer (n.) One who, or that which, clears.

Clearer (n.) A tool of which the hemp for lines and twines, used by sailmakers, is finished.

Clear-headed (a.) Having a clear understanding; quick of perception; intelligent.

Clearing (n.) The act or process of making clear.

Clearing (n.) A tract of land cleared of wood for cultivation.

Clearing (n.) A method adopted by banks and bankers for making an exchange of checks held by each against the others, and settling differences of accounts.

Clearing (n.) The gross amount of the balances adjusted in the clearing house.

Clearly (adv.) In a clear manner.

Clearness (n.) The quality or state of being clear.

Clear-seeing (a.) Having a clear physical or mental vision; having a clear understanding.

Clear-shining (a.) Shining brightly.

Clear-sighted (a.) Seeing with clearness; discerning; as, clear-sighted reason

Clear-sightedness (n.) Acute discernment.

Clearstarched (imp. & p. p.) of Clearstarch

Clearstraching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clearstarch

Clearstarch (v. t.) To stiffen with starch, and then make clear by clapping with the hands; as, to clearstarch muslin.

Clearstarcher (n.) One who clearstarches.

Clearstory (n.) Alt. of Clerestory

Clerestory (n.) The upper story of the nave of a church, containing windows, and rising above the aisle roofs.

Clearwing (n.) A lepidopterous insect with partially transparent wings, of the family Aegeriadae, of which the currant and peach-tree borers are examples.

Cleat (n.) A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to something in order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc.

Cleat (n.) A device made of wood or metal, having two arms, around which turns may be taken with a line or rope so as to hold securely and yet be readily released. It is bolted by the middle to a deck or mast, etc., or it may be lashed to a rope.

Cleat (v. t.) To strengthen with a cleat.

Cleavable (a.) Capable of cleaving or being divided.

Cleavage (n.) The act of cleaving or splitting.

Cleavage (n.) The quality possessed by many crystallized substances of splitting readily in one or more definite directions, in which the cohesive attraction is a minimum, affording more or less smooth surfaces; the direction of the dividing plane; a fragment obtained by cleaving, as of a diamond. See Parting.

Cleavage (n.) Division into laminae, like slate, with the lamination not necessarily parallel to the plane of deposition; -- usually produced by pressure.

Cleaved (imp.) of Cleave

Clave () of Cleave

Cleaved (p. p.) of Cleave

Cleaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cleave

Cleave (v. i. ) To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.

Cleave (v. i. ) To unite or be united closely in interest or affection; to adhere with strong attachment.

Cleave (v. i. ) To fit; to be adapted; to assimilate.

Cleft (imp.) of Cleave

Clave () of Cleave

Clove () of Cleave

Cleft (p. p.) of Cleave

Cleaved () of Cleave

Cloven () of Cleave

Cleaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cleave

Cleave (v. t.) To part or divide by force; to split or rive; to cut.

Cleave (v. t.) To part or open naturally; to divide.

Cleave (v. i.) To part; to open; to crack; to separate; as parts of bodies; as, the ground cleaves by frost.

Cleavelandite (n.) A variety of albite, white and lamellar in structure.

Cleaver (n.) One who cleaves, or that which cleaves; especially, a butcher's instrument for cutting animal bodies into joints or pieces.

Cleavers (n.) A species of Galium (G. Aparine), having a fruit set with hooked bristles, which adhere to whatever they come in contact with; -- called also, goose grass, catchweed, etc.

Cleche (a.) Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of the color of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the first bearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. Compare Voided.

Clechy (a.) See Cleche.

Cledge (n.) The upper stratum of fuller's earth.

Cledgy (a.) Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil.

Clee (n.) A claw.

Clee (n.) The redshank.

Clef (n.) A character used in musical notation to determine the position and pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.

Cleft () imp. & p. p. from Cleave.

Cleft (a.) Divided; split; partly divided or split.

Cleft (a.) Incised nearly to the midrib; as, a cleft leaf.

Cleft (n.) A space or opening made by splitting; a crack; a crevice; as, the cleft of a rock.

Cleft (n.) A piece made by splitting; as, a cleft of wood.

Cleft (n.) A disease in horses; a crack on the band of the pastern.

Cleft-footed (a.) Having a cloven foot.

Cleftgraft (v. t.) To ingraft by cleaving the stock and inserting a scion.

Cleg (n.) A small breeze or horsefly.

Cleistogamic (a.) Alt. of Cleistogamous

Cleistogamous (a.) Having, beside the usual flowers, other minute, closed flowers, without petals or with minute petals; -- said of certain species of plants which possess flowers of two or more kinds, the closed ones being so constituted as to insure self-fertilization.

Clem (v. t. & i.) To starve; to famish.

Clematis (n.) A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers, having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- called also virgin's bower.

Clemence (n.) Clemency.

Clemencies (pl. ) of Clemency

Clemency (n.) Disposition to forgive and spare, as offenders; mildness of temper; gentleness; tenderness; mercy.

Clemency (n.) Mildness or softness of the elements; as, the clemency of the season.

Clement (a.) Mild in temper and disposition; merciful; compassionate.

Clementine (a.) Of or pertaining to Clement, esp. to St. Clement of Rome and the spurious homilies attributed to him, or to Pope Clement V. and his compilations of canon law.

Clench (n. & v. t.) See Clinch.

Cleped (imp. & p. p.) of Clepe

Cleping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clepe

Ycleped () of Clepe

Clepe (v. t.) To call, or name.

Clepe (v. i.) To make appeal; to cry out.

Clepsine (n.) A genus of fresh-water leeches, furnished with a proboscis. They feed upon mollusks and worms.

Clepsydra (n.) A water clock; a contrivance for measuring time by the graduated flow of a liquid, as of water, through a small aperture. See Illust. in Appendix.

Cleptomania (n.) See Kleptomania.

Clerestory (n.) Same as Clearstory.

Clergeon (n.) A chorister boy.

Clergial (a.) Learned; erudite; clerical.

Clergical (a.) Of or pertaining to the clergy; clerical; clerkily; learned.

Clergy (n.) The body of men set apart, by due ordination, to the service of God, in the Christian church, in distinction from the laity; in England, usually restricted to the ministers of the Established Church.

Clergy (n.) Learning; also, a learned profession.

Clergy (n.) The privilege or benefit of clergy.

Clergyable (a.) Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, a clergyable felony.

Clergymen (pl. ) of Clergyman

Clergyman (n.) An ordained minister; a man regularly authorized to preach the gospel, and administer its ordinances; in England usually restricted to a minister of the Established Church.

Cleric (n.) A clerk, a clergyman.

Cleric (a.) Same as Clerical.

Clerical (a.) Of or pertaining to the clergy; suitable for the clergy.

Clerical (a.) Of or relating to a clerk or copyist, or to writing.

Clericalism (n.) An excessive devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order; undue influence of the clergy; sacerdotalism.

Clericity (n.) The state of being a clergyman.

Clerisy (n.) The literati, or well educated class.

Clerisy (n.) The clergy, or their opinions, as opposed to the laity.

Clerk (n.) A clergyman or ecclesiastic.

Clerk (n.) A man who could read; a scholar; a learned person; a man of letters.

Clerk (n.) A parish officer, being a layman who leads in reading the responses of the Episcopal church service, and otherwise assists in it.

Clerk (n.) One employed to keep records or accounts; a scribe; an accountant; as, the clerk of a court; a town clerk.

Clerk (n.) An assistant in a shop or store.

Clerk-ale (n.) A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk.

Clerkless (a.) Unlearned.

Clerklike (a.) Scholarlike.

Clerkliness (n.) Scholarship.

Clerkly (a.) Of or pertaining to a clerk.

Clerkly (adv.) In a scholarly manner.

Clerkship (n.) State, quality, or business of a clerk.

Cleromancy (n.) A divination by throwing dice or casting lots.

Cleronomy (n.) Inheritance; heritage.

Clerstory (n.) See Clearstory.

Clever (a.) Possessing quickness of intellect, skill, dexterity, talent, or adroitness; expert.

Clever (a.) Showing skill or adroitness in the doer or former; as, a clever speech; a clever trick.

Clever (a.) Having fitness, propriety, or suitableness.

Clever (a.) Well-shaped; handsome.

Clever (a.) Good-natured; obliging.

Cleverish (a.) Somewhat clever.

Cleverly (adv.) In a clever manner.

Cleverness (n.) The quality of being clever; skill; dexterity; adroitness.

Clevis (n.) A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.; -- called also clavel, clevy.

Clew (n.) Alt. of Clue

Clue (n.) A ball of thread, yarn, or cord; also, The thread itself.

Clue (n.) That which guides or directs one in anything of a doubtful or intricate nature; that which gives a hint in the solution of a mystery.

Clue (n.) A lower corner of a square sail, or the after corner of a fore-and-aft sail.

Clue (n.) A loop and thimbles at the corner of a sail.

Clue (n.) A combination of lines or nettles by which a hammock is suspended.

Clewing (imp. & p. p. & vb. n.) of Clew

Clew (n.) To direct; to guide, as by a thread.

Clew (n.) To move of draw (a sail or yard) by means of the clew garnets, clew lines, etc.; esp. to draw up the clews of a square sail to the yard.

Cliche (n.) A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, or lettering, in relief.

Clicked (imp. & p. p.) of Click

Clicking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Click

Click (v. i.) To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises), as by gentle striking; to tick.

Click (v. t.) To move with the sound of a click.

Click (v. t.) To cause to make a clicking noise, as by striking together, or against something.

Click (n.) A slight sharp noise, such as is made by the cocking of a pistol.

Click (n.) A kind of articulation used by the natives of Southern Africa, consisting in a sudden withdrawal of the end or some other portion of the tongue from a part of the mouth with which it is in contact, whereby a sharp, clicking sound is produced. The sounds are four in number, and are called cerebral, palatal, dental, and lateral clicks or clucks, the latter being the noise ordinarily used in urging a horse forward.

Click (v. t.) To snatch.

Click (n.) A detent, pawl, or ratchet, as that which catches the cogs of a ratchet wheel to prevent backward motion. See Illust. of Ratched wheel.

Click (n.) The latch of a door.

Click beetle () See Elater.

Clicker (n.) One who stands before a shop door to invite people to buy.

Clicker (n.) One who as has charge of the work of a companionship.

Clicket (n.) The knocker of a door.

Clicket (n.) A latch key.

Clicky (a.) Resembling a click; abounding in clicks.

Clidastes (n.) A genus of extinct marine reptiles, allied to the Mosasaurus. See Illust. in Appendix.

Cliency (n.) State of being a client.

Client (n.) A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man of distinction and influence, who was called his patron.

Client (n.) A dependent; one under the protection of another.

Client (n.) One who consults a legal adviser, or submits his cause to his management.

Clientage (n.) State of being client.

Clientage (n.) A body of clients.

Cliental (a.) Of or pertaining to a client.

Cliented (a.) Supplied with clients.

Clientelage (n.) See Clientele, n., 2.

Clientele (n.) The condition or position of a client; clientship

Clientele (n.) The clients or dependents of a nobleman of patron.

Clientele (n.) The persons who make habitual use of the services of another person; one's clients, collectively; as, the clientele of a lawyer, doctor, notary, etc.

Clientship (n.) Condition of a client; state of being under the protection of a patron.

Cliff (n.) A high, steep rock; a precipice.

Cliff (n.) See Clef.

Cliff limestone () A series of limestone strata found in Ohio and farther west, presenting bluffs along the rivers and valleys, formerly supposed to be of one formation, but now known to be partly Silurian and partly Devonian.

Cliffy (a.) Having cliffs; broken; craggy.

Clift (n.) A cliff.

Clift (n.) A cleft of crack; a narrow opening.

Clift (n.) The fork of the legs; the crotch.

Clifted (a.) Broken; fissured.

Climacter (n.) See Climacteric, n.

Climacteric (a.) Relating to a climacteric; critical.

Climacteric (n.) A period in human life in which some great change is supposed to take place in the constitution. The critical periods are thought by some to be the years produced by multiplying 7 into the odd numbers 3, 5, 7, and 9; to which others add the 81st year.

Climacteric (n.) Any critical period.

Climacterical (a. & n.) See Climacteric.

Climatal (a.) Climatic.

Climatarchic (a.) Presiding over, or regulating, climates.

Climate (v. i.) One of thirty regions or zones, parallel to the equator, into which the surface of the earth from the equator to the pole was divided, according to the successive increase of the length of the midsummer day.

Climate (v. i.) The condition of a place in relation to various phenomena of the atmosphere, as temperature, moisture, etc., especially as they affect animal or vegetable life.

Climate (v. i.) To dwell.

Climatic (a.) Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, a climate.

Climatical (a.) Climatic.

Climatized (imp. & p. p.) of Climatize

Climatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Climatize

Climatize (v. t. & i.) To acclimate or become acclimated.

Climatography (n.) A description of climates.

Climatological (a.) Of or pertaining to climatology.

Climatologist (n.) One versed in, or who studies, climatology.

Climatology (n.) The science which treats of climates and investigates their phenomena and causes.

Climature (n.) A climate.

Climax (v. i.) Upward movement; steady increase; gradation; ascent.

Climax (v. i.) A figure in which the parts of a sentence or paragraph are so arranged that each succeeding one rises above its predecessor in impressiveness.

Climax (v. i.) The highest point; the greatest degree.

Climbed (imp. & p. p.) of Climb

Clomb () of Climb

Climbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Climb

Climb (v. i.) To ascend or mount laboriously, esp. by use of the hands and feet.

Climb (v. i.) To ascend as if with effort; to rise to a higher point.

Climb (v. i.) To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or by attaching itself by tendrils, rootlets, etc., to a support or upright surface.

Climb (v. t.) To ascend, as by means of the hands and feet, or laboriously or slowly; to mount.

Climb (n.) The act of one who climbs; ascent by climbing.

Climbable (a.) Capable of being climbed.

Climber (n.) One who, or that which, climbs

Climber (n.) A plant that climbs.

Climber (n.) A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot.

Climber (v. i.) To climb; to mount with effort; to clamber.

Climbing () p. pr. & vb. n. of Climb.

Clime (n.) A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate.

Clinanthium (n.) The receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- also called clinium.

Clinched (imp. & p. p.) of Clinch

Clinching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clinch

Clinch (v. t.) To hold firmly; to hold fast by grasping or embracing tightly.

Clinch (v. t.) To set closely together; to close tightly; as, to clinch the teeth or the first.

Clinch (v. t.) To bend or turn over the point of (something that has been driven through an object), so that it will hold fast; as, to clinch a nail.

Clinch (v. t.) To make conclusive; to confirm; to establish; as, to clinch an argument.

Clinch (v. i.) To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp one another.

Clinch (n.) The act or process of holding fast; that which serves to hold fast; a grip; a grasp; a clamp; a holdfast; as, to get a good clinch of an antagonist, or of a weapon; to secure anything by a clinch.

Clinch (n.) A pun.

Clinch (n.) A hitch or bend by which a rope is made fast to the ring of an anchor, or the breeching of a ship's gun to the ringbolts.

Clincher (n.) One who, or that which, clinches; that which holds fast.

Clincher (n.) That which ends a dispute or controversy; a decisive argument.

Clincher-built (a.) See Clinker-built.

Clung (imp. & p. p.) of Cling

Clong () of Cling

Clinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cling

Cling (v. i.) To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its support; -- usually followed by to or together.

Cling (v. t.) To cause to adhere to, especially by twining round or embracing.

Cling (v. t.) To make to dry up or wither.

Cling (n.) Adherence; attachment; devotion.

Clingstone (a.) Having the flesh attached closely to the stone, as in some kinds of peaches.

Clingstone (n.) A fruit, as a peach, whose flesh adheres to the stone.

Clingy (a.) Apt to cling; adhesive.

Clinic (n.) One confined to the bed by sickness.

Clinic (n.) One who receives baptism on a sick bed.

Clinic (n.) A school, or a session of a school or class, in which medicine or surgery is taught by the examination and treatment of patients in the presence of the pupils.

Clinical (v. i.) Alt. of Clinic

Clinic (v. i.) Of or pertaining to a bed, especially, a sick bed.

Clinic (v. i.) Of or pertaining to a clinic, or to the study of disease in the living subject.

Clinically (adv.) In a clinical manner.

Clinique (n.) A clinic.

Clinium (n.) See Clinanthium.

Clinked (imp. & p. p.) of Clink

Clinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clink

Clink (v. i.) To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as by striking metallic or other sonorous bodies together.

Clink (v. i.) To give out a slight, sharp, tinkling sound.

Clink (v. i.) To rhyme. [Humorous].

Clink (n.) A slight, sharp, tinkling sound, made by the collision of sonorous bodies.

Clinkant (a.) See Clinquant.

Clinker (n.) A mass composed of several bricks run together by the action of the fire in the kiln.

Clinker (n.) Scoria or vitrified incombustible matter, formed in a grate or furnace where anthracite coal in used; vitrified or burnt matter ejected from a volcano; slag.

Clinker (n.) A scale of oxide of iron, formed in forging.

Clinker (n.) A kind of brick. See Dutch clinker, under Dutch.

Clinker-built (a.) Having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the lower edge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it like clapboards on a house. See Lapstreak.

Clinkstone (n.) An igneous rock of feldspathic composition, lamellar in structure, and clinking under the hammer. See Phonolite.

Clinodiagonal (n.) That diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which makes an oblique angle with the vertical axis. See Crystallization.

Clinodiagonal (a.) Pertaining to, or the direction of, the clinodiagonal.

Clinodome (n.) See under Dome.

Clinographic (a.) Pertaining to that mode of projection in drawing in which the rays of light are supposed to fall obliquely on the plane of projection.

Clinoid (a.) Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner side of the sphenoid bone.

Clinometer (n.) An instrument for determining the dip of beds or strata, pr the slope of an embankment or cutting; a kind of plumb level.

Clinometric (a.) Pertaining to, or ascertained by, the clinometer.

Clinometric (a.) Pertaining to the oblique crystalline forms, or to solids which have oblique angles between the axes; as, the clinometric systems.

Clinometry (n.) That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata.

Clinopinacoid (n.) The plane in crystals of the monoclinic system which is parallel to the vertical and the inclined lateral (clinidiagonal) axes.

Clinorhombic (a.) Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to a rhombic base; monoclinic.

Clinquant (a.) Glittering; dressed in, or overlaid with, tinsel finery.

Clinquant (n.) Tinsel; Dutch gold.

Clio (n.) The Muse who presided over history.

Clione (n.) A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea), abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of the Greenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio.

Clipped (imp. & p. p.) of Clip

Clipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clip

Clip (v. t.) To embrace, hence; to encompass.

Clip (v. t.) To cut off; as with shears or scissors; as, to clip the hair; to clip coin.

Clip (v. t.) To curtail; to cut short.

Clip (v. i.) To move swiftly; -- usually with indefinite it.

Clip (n.) An embrace.

Clip (n.) A cutting; a shearing.

Clip (n.) The product of a single shearing of sheep; a season's crop of wool.

Clip (n.) A clasp or holder for letters, papers, etc.

Clip (n.) An embracing strap for holding parts together; the iron strap, with loop, at the ends of a whiffletree.

Clip (n.) A projecting flange on the upper edge of a horseshoe, turned up so as to embrace the lower part of the hoof; -- called also toe clip and beak.

Clip (n.) A blow or stroke with the hand; as, he hit him a clip.

Clipper (n.) One who clips; specifically, one who clips off the edges of coin.

Clipper (n.) A machine for clipping hair, esp. the hair of horses.

Clipper (n.) A vessel with a sharp bow, built and rigged for fast sailing.

Clipping (n.) The act of embracing.

Clipping (n.) The act of cutting off, curtailing, or diminishing; the practice of clipping the edges of coins.

Clipping (n.) That which is clipped off or out of something; a piece separated by clipping; as, newspaper clippings.

Clique (v. i.) A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a bad sense.

Clique (v. i.) To To associate together in a clannish way; to act with others secretly to gain a desired end; to plot; -- used with together.

Cliquish (a.) Of or pertaining to a clique; disposed to from cliques; exclusive in spirit.

Cliquism (n.) The tendency to associate in cliques; the spirit of cliques.

Clitellus (n.) A thickened glandular portion of the body of the adult earthworm, consisting of several united segments modified for reproductive purposes.

Clitoris (n.) A small organ at the upper part of the vulva, homologous to the penis in the male.

Clivers (n.) See Cleavers.

Clivities (pl. ) of Clivity

Clivity (n.) Inclination; ascent or descent; a gradient.

Cloacae (pl. ) of Cloaca

Cloaca (n.) A sewer; as, the Cloaca Maxima of Rome.

Cloaca (n.) A privy.

Cloaca (n.) The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, and generative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and many fishes.

Cloacal (a.) Of or pertaining to a cloaca.

Cloak (n.) A loose outer garment, extending from the neck downwards, and commonly without sleeves. It is longer than a cape, and is worn both by men and by women.

Cloak (n.) That which conceals; a disguise or pretext; an excuse; a fair pretense; a mask; a cover.

Cloaked (imp. & p. p.) of Cloak

Cloaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cloak

Cloak (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a cloak; hence, to hide or conceal.

Cloakedly (adv.) In a concealed manner.

Cloaking (n.) The act of covering with a cloak; the act of concealing anything.

Cloaking (n.) The material of which of which cloaks are made.

Cloakroom (n.) A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks, overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time.

Clock (n.) A machine for measuring time, indicating the hour and other divisions by means of hands moving on a dial plate. Its works are moved by a weight or a spring, and it is often so constructed as to tell the hour by the stroke of a hammer on a bell. It is not adapted, like the watch, to be carried on the person.

Clock (n.) A watch, esp. one that strikes.

Clock (n.) The striking of a clock.

Clock (n.) A figure or figured work on the ankle or side of a stocking.

Clock (v. t.) To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking.

Clock (v. t. & i.) To call, as a hen. See Cluck.

Clock (n.) A large beetle, esp. the European dung beetle (Scarabaeus stercorarius).

Clocklike (a.) Like a clock or like clockwork; mechanical.

Clockwork (n.) The machinery of a clock, or machinery resembling that of a clock; machinery which produces regularity of movement.

Clod (n.) A lump or mass, especially of earth, turf, or clay.

Clod (n.) The ground; the earth; a spot of earth or turf.

Clod (n.) That which is earthy and of little relative value, as the body of man in comparison with the soul.

Clod (n.) A dull, gross, stupid fellow; a dolt

Clod (n.) A part of the shoulder of a beef creature, or of the neck piece near the shoulder. See Illust. of Beef.

Clod (v.i) To collect into clods, or into a thick mass; to coagulate; to clot; as, clodded gore. See Clot.

Clod (v. t.) To pelt with clods.

Clod (v. t.) To throw violently; to hurl.

Cloddish (a.) Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish.

Cloddy (a.) Consisting of clods; full of clods.

Clodhopper (n.) A rude, rustic fellow.

Clodhopping (a.) Boorish; rude.

Clodpate (n.) A blockhead; a dolt.

Clodpated (a.) Stupid; dull; doltish.

Clodpoll (n.) A stupid fellow; a dolt.

Cloff (n.) Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundred weight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in a general sense, of small deductions from the original weight.

Clog (v.) That which hinders or impedes motion; hence, an encumbrance, restraint, or impediment, of any kind.

Clog (v.) A weight, as a log or block of wood, attached to a man or an animal to hinder motion.

Clog (v.) A shoe, or sandal, intended to protect the feet from wet, or to increase the apparent stature, and having, therefore, a very thick sole. Cf. Chopine.

Clogged (imp. & p. p.) of Clog

Clogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clog

Clog (v. t.) To encumber or load, especially with something that impedes motion; to hamper.

Clog (v. t.) To obstruct so as to hinder motion in or through; to choke up; as, to clog a tube or a channel.

Clog (v. t.) To burden; to trammel; to embarrass; to perplex.

Clog (v. i.) To become clogged; to become loaded or encumbered, as with extraneous matter.

Clog (v. i.) To coalesce or adhere; to unite in a mass.

Clogginess (n.) The state of being clogged.

Clogging (n.) Anything which clogs.

Cloggy (a.) Clogging, or having power to clog.

Cloisonne (a.) Inlaid between partitions: -- said of enamel when the lines which divide the different patches of fields are composed of a kind of metal wire secured to the ground; as distinguished from champleve enamel, in which the ground is engraved or scooped out to receive the enamel.

Cloister (v. t.) An inclosed place.

Cloister (v. t.) A covered passage or ambulatory on one side of a court;

Cloister (v. t.) the series of such passages on the different sides of any court, esp. that of a monastery or a college.

Cloister (v. t.) A monastic establishment; a place for retirement from the world for religious duties.

Cloistered (imp. & p. p.) of Cloister

Cloistering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cloister

Cloister (v. t.) To confine in, or as in, a cloister; to seclude from the world; to immure.

Cloisteral (a.) Cloistral.

Cloistered (a.) Dwelling in cloisters; solitary.

Cloistered (a.) Furnished with cloisters.

Cloisterer (n.) One belonging to, or living in, a cloister; a recluse.

Cloistral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or confined in, a cloister; recluse.

Cloistress (n.) A nun.

Cloke (n. & v.) See Cloak.

Clomb () Alt. of Clomben

Clomben () imp. & p. p. of Climb (for climbed).

Clomp (n.) See Clamp.

Clong () imp. of Cling.

Clonic (a.) Having an irregular, convulsive motion.

Cloom (v. t.) To close with glutinous matter.

Cloop (n.) The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle.

Closed (imp. & p. p.) of Close

Closing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Close

Close (n.) To stop, or fill up, as an opening; to shut; as, to close the eyes; to close a door.

Close (n.) To bring together the parts of; to consolidate; as, to close the ranks of an army; -- often used with up.

Close (n.) To bring to an end or period; to conclude; to complete; to finish; to end; to consummate; as, to close a bargain; to close a course of instruction.

Close (n.) To come or gather around; to inclose; to encompass; to confine.

Close (v. i.) To come together; to unite or coalesce, as the parts of a wound, or parts separated.

Close (v. i.) To end, terminate, or come to a period; as, the debate closed at six o'clock.

Close (v. i.) To grapple; to engage in hand-to-hand fight.

Close (n.) The manner of shutting; the union of parts; junction.

Close (n.) Conclusion; cessation; ending; end.

Close (n.) A grapple in wrestling.

Close (n.) The conclusion of a strain of music; cadence.

Close (n.) A double bar marking the end.

Close (v. t.) An inclosed place; especially, a small field or piece of land surrounded by a wall, hedge, or fence of any kind; -- specifically, the precinct of a cathedral or abbey.

Close (v. t.) A narrow passage leading from a street to a court, and the houses within.

Close (v. t.) The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, even though it is not inclosed.

Close (v. t.) Shut fast; closed; tight; as, a close box.

Close (v. t.) Narrow; confined; as, a close alley; close quarters.

Close (v. t.) Oppressive; without motion or ventilation; causing a feeling of lassitude; -- said of the air, weather, etc.

Close (v. t.) Strictly confined; carefully quarded; as, a close prisoner.

Close (v. t.) Out of the way observation; secluded; secret; hidden.

Close (v. t.) Disposed to keep secrets; secretive; reticent.

Close (v. t.) Having the parts near each other; dense; solid; compact; as applied to bodies; viscous; tenacious; not volatile, as applied to liquids.

Close (v. t.) Concise; to the point; as, close reasoning.

Close (v. t.) Adjoining; near; either in space; time, or thought; -- often followed by to.

Close (v. t.) Short; as, to cut grass or hair close.

Close (v. t.) Intimate; familiar; confidential.

Close (v. t.) Nearly equal; almost evenly balanced; as, a close vote.

Close (v. t.) Difficult to obtain; as, money is close.

Close (v. t.) Parsimonious; stingy.

Close (v. t.) Adhering strictly to a standard or original; exact; strict; as, a close translation.

Close (v. t.) Accurate; careful; precise; also, attentive; undeviating; strict; not wandering; as, a close observer.

Close (v. t.) Uttered with a relatively contracted opening of the mouth, as certain sounds of e and o in French, Italian, and German; -- opposed to open.

Close (adv.) In a close manner.

Close (adv.) Secretly; darkly.

Close-banded (a.) Closely united.

Close-barred (a.) Firmly barred or closed.

Close-bodied (a.) Fitting the body exactly; setting close, as a garment.

Close-fights (n. pl.) Barriers with loopholes, formerly erected on the deck of a vessel to shelter the men in a close engagement with an enemy's boarders; -- called also close quarters.

Closefisted (a.) Covetous; niggardly.

Closehanded (a.) Covetous; penurious; stingy; closefisted.

Closehauled (a.) Under way and moving as nearly as possible toward the direction from which the wind blows; -- said of a sailing vessel.

Closely (adv.) In a close manner.

Closely (adv.) Secretly; privately.

Closemouthed (a.) Cautious in speaking; secret; wary; uncommunicative.

Closen (v. t.) To make close.

Closeness (n.) The state of being close.

Closer (n.) One who, or that which, closes; specifically, a boot closer. See under Boot.

Closer (n.) A finisher; that which finishes or terminates.

Closer (n.) The last stone in a horizontal course, if of a less size than the others, or a piece of brick finishing a course.

Closereefed (a.) Having all the reefs taken in; -- said of a sail.

Close-stool (n.) A utensil to hold a chamber vessel, for the use of the sick and infirm. It is usually in the form of a box, with a seat and tight cover.

Closet (n.) A small room or apartment for retirement; a room for privacy.

Closet (n.) A small apartment, or recess in the side of a room, for household utensils, clothing, etc.

Closeting (imp. & p. pr. & vb. n.) of Closet

Closet (v. t.) To shut up in, or as in, a closet; to conceal.

Closet (v. t.) To make into a closet for a secret interview.

Close-tongued (a.) Closemouthed; silent.

Closh (n.) A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis.

Closh (n.) The game of ninepins.

Closure (v. t.) The act of shutting; a closing; as, the closure of a chink.

Closure (v. t.) That which closes or shuts; that by which separate parts are fastened or closed.

Closure (v. t.) That which incloses or confines; an inclosure.

Closure (v. t.) A conclusion; an end.

Closure (v. t.) A method of putting an end to debate and securing an immediate vote upon a measure before a legislative body. It is similar in effect to the previous question. It was first introduced into the British House of Commons in 1882. The French word cloture was originally applied to this proceeding.

Clot (n.) A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated mass, as of blood; a coagulum.

Clotted (imp. & p. p.) of Clot

Clotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clot

Clot (v. i.) To concrete, coagulate, or thicken, as soft or fluid matter by evaporation; to become a cot or clod.

Clot (v. t.) To form into a slimy mass.

Clotbur (n.) The burdock.

Clotbur (n.) Same as Cocklebur.

Clote (n.) The common burdock; the clotbur.

Cloths (pl. ) of Cloth

Clothes (pl. ) of Cloth

Cloth (n.) A fabric made of fibrous material (or sometimes of wire, as in wire cloth); commonly, a woven fabric of cotton, woolen, or linen, adapted to be made into garments; specifically, woolen fabrics, as distinguished from all others.

Cloth (n.) The dress; raiment. [Obs.] See Clothes.

Cloth (n.) The distinctive dress of any profession, especially of the clergy; hence, the clerical profession.

Clothed (imp. & p. p.) of Clothe

Clad () of Clothe

Clothing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clothe

Clothe (v. t.) To put garments on; to cover with clothing; to dress.

Clothe (v. t.) To provide with clothes; as, to feed and clothe a family; to clothe one's self extravagantly.

Clothe (v. t.) Fig.: To cover or invest, as with a garment; as, to clothe one with authority or power.

Clothe (v. i.) To wear clothes.

Clothes (n. pl.) Covering for the human body; dress; vestments; vesture; -- a general term for whatever covering is worn, or is made to be worn, for decency or comfort.

Clothes (n. pl.) The covering of a bed; bedclothes.

Clotheshorse (n.) A frame to hang clothes on.

Clothesline (n.) A rope or wire on which clothes are hung to dry.

Clothespin (n.) A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used for fastening clothes on a line.

Clothespress (n.) A receptacle for clothes.

Clothier (n.) One who makes cloths; one who dresses or fulls cloth.

Clothier (n.) One who sells cloth or clothes, or who makes and sells clothes.

Clothing (n.) Garments in general; clothes; dress; raiment; covering.

Clothing (n.) The art of process of making cloth.

Clothing (n.) A covering of non-conducting material on the outside of a boiler, or steam chamber, to prevent radiation of heat.

Clothing (n.) See Card clothing, under 3d Card.

Clothred (p. p.) Clottered.

Clotpoll (n.) See Clodpoll.

Clotted (a.) Composed of clots or clods; having the quality or form of a clot; sticky; slimy; foul.

Clotter (v. i.) To concrete into lumps; to clot.

Clotty (n.) Full of clots, or clods.

Cloture (n.) See Closure, 5.

Clotweed (n.) Cocklebur.

Cloud (n.) A collection of visible vapor, or watery particles, suspended in the upper atmosphere.

Cloud (n.) A mass or volume of smoke, or flying dust, resembling vapor.

Cloud (n.) A dark vein or spot on a lighter material, as in marble; hence, a blemish or defect; as, a cloud upon one's reputation; a cloud on a title.

Cloud (n.) That which has a dark, lowering, or threatening aspect; that which temporarily overshadows, obscures, or depresses; as, a cloud of sorrow; a cloud of war; a cloud upon the intellect.

Cloud (n.) A great crowd or multitude; a vast collection.

Cloud (n.) A large, loosely-knitted scarf, worn by women about the head.

Clouded (imp. & p. p.) of Cloud

Clouding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cloud

Cloud (v. t.) To overspread or hide with a cloud or clouds; as, the sky is clouded.

Cloud (v. t.) To darken or obscure, as if by hiding or enveloping with a cloud; hence, to render gloomy or sullen.

Cloud (v. t.) To blacken; to sully; to stain; to tarnish; to damage; -- esp. used of reputation or character.

Cloud (v. t.) To mark with, or darken in, veins or sports; to variegate with colors; as, to cloud yarn.

Cloud (v. i.) To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often used with up.

Cloudage (n.) Mass of clouds; cloudiness.

Cloudberry (n.) A species of raspberry (Rubus Chamaemerous) growing in the northern regions, and bearing edible, amber-colored fruit.

Cloud-built (a.) Built of, or in, the clouds; airy; unsubstantial; imaginary.

Cloud-burst (n.) A sudden copious rainfall, as the whole cloud had been precipitated at once.

Cloud-capped (a.) Having clouds resting on the top or head; reaching to the clouds; as, cloud-capped mountains.

Cloud-compeller (n.) Cloud-gatherer; -- an epithet applied to Zeus.

Cloudily (adv.) In a cloudy manner; darkly; obscurely.

Cloudiness (n.) The state of being cloudy.

Clouding (n.) A mottled appearance given to ribbons and silks in the process of dyeing.

Clouding (n.) A diversity of colors in yarn, recurring at regular intervals.

Cloudland (n.) Dreamland.

Cloudless (a.) Without a cloud; clear; bright.

Cloudlet (n.) A little cloud.

Cloudy (n.) Overcast or obscured with clouds; clouded; as, a cloudy sky.

Cloudy (n.) Consisting of a cloud or clouds.

Cloudy (n.) Indicating gloom, anxiety, sullenness, or ill-nature; not open or cheerful.

Cloudy (n.) Confused; indistinct; obscure; dark.

Cloudy (n.) Lacking clearness, brightness, or luster.

Cloudy (n.) Marked with veins or sports of dark or various hues, as marble.

Clough (n.) A cleft in a hill; a ravine; a narrow valley.

Clough (n.) A sluice used in returning water to a channel after depositing its sediment on the flooded land.

Clough (n.) An allowance in weighing. See Cloff.

Clout (n.) A cloth; a piece of cloth or leather; a patch; a rag.

Clout (n.) A swadding cloth.

Clout (n.) A piece; a fragment.

Clout (n.) The center of the butt at which archers shoot; -- probably once a piece of white cloth or a nail head.

Clout (n.) An iron plate on an axletree or other wood to keep it from wearing; a washer.

Clout (n.) A blow with the hand.

Clouted (imp. & p. p.) of Clout

Clouting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clout

Clout (n.) To cover with cloth, leather, or other material; to bandage; patch, or mend, with a clout.

Clout (n.) To join or patch clumsily.

Clout (n.) To quard with an iron plate, as an axletree.

Clout (n.) To give a blow to; to strike.

Clout (n.) To stud with nails, as a timber, or a boot sole.

Clouterly (n.) Clumsy; awkward.

Clove (imp.) Cleft.

Clove (v. t.) A cleft; a gap; a ravine; -- rarely used except as part of a proper name; as, Kaaterskill Clove; Stone Clove.

Clove (n.) A very pungent aromatic spice, the unexpanded flower bud of the clove tree (Eugenia, / Caryophullus, aromatica), a native of the Molucca Isles.

Clove (n.) One of the small bulbs developed in the axils of the scales of a large bulb, as in the case of garlic.

Clove (n.) A weight. A clove of cheese is about eight pounds, of wool, about seven pounds.

Cloven (p. p. & a.) from Cleave, v. t.

Cloven-footed (a.) Alt. of Cloven-hoofed

Cloven-hoofed (a.) Having the foot or hoof divided into two parts, as the ox.

Clover (n.) A plant of different species of the genus Trifolium; as the common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's foot, T. arvense.

Clovered (a.) Covered with growing clover.

Clowe-gilofre (n.) Spice clove.

Clown (n.) A man of coarse nature and manners; an awkward fellow; an ill-bred person; a boor.

Clown (n.) One who works upon the soil; a rustic; a churl.

Clown (n.) The fool or buffoon in a play, circus, etc.

Clown (v. i.) To act as a clown; -- with it.

Clownage (n.) Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery.

Clownery (n.) Clownishness.

Clownish (a.) Of or resembling a clown, or characteristic of a clown; ungainly; awkward.

Clownishness (n.) The manners of a clown; coarseness or rudeness of behavior.

Cloyed (imp. & p. p.) of Cloy

Cloying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cloy

Cloy (v. t.) To fill or choke up; to stop up; to clog.

Cloy (v. t.) To glut, or satisfy, as the appetite; to satiate; to fill to loathing; to surfeit.

Cloy (v. t.) To penetrate or pierce; to wound.

Cloy (v. t.) To spike, as a cannon.

Cloy (v. t.) To stroke with a claw.

Cloyless (a.) That does not cloy.

Cloyment (n.) Satiety.

Club (n.) A heavy staff of wood, usually tapering, and wielded the hand; a weapon; a cudgel.

Club (n.) Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoil or clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure.

Club (n.) An association of persons for the promotion of some common object, as literature, science, politics, good fellowship, etc.; esp. an association supported by equal assessments or contributions of the members.

Club (n.) A joint charge of expense, or any person's share of it; a contribution to a common fund.

Clubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Club

Clubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Club

Club (v. t.) To beat with a club.

Club (v. t.) To throw, or allow to fall, into confusion.

Club (v. t.) To unite, or contribute, for the accomplishment of a common end; as, to club exertions.

Club (v. t.) To raise, or defray, by a proportional assesment; as, to club the expense.

Club (v. i.) To form a club; to combine for the promotion of some common object; to unite.

Club (v. i.) To pay on equal or proportionate share of a common charge or expense; to pay for something by contribution.

Club (v. i.) To drift in a current with an anchor out.

Clubbable (a.) Suitable for membership in a club; sociable.

Clubbed (a.) Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club.

Clubber (n.) One who clubs.

Clubber (n.) A member of a club.

Clubbish (a.) Rude; clownish.

Clubbish (a.) Disposed to club together; as, a clubbish set.

Clubbist (n.) A member of a club; a frequenter of clubs.

Clubfist (n.) A large, heavy fist.

Clubfist (n.) A coarse, brutal fellow.

Clubfisted (a.) Having a large fist.

Clubfoot (n.) A short, variously distorted foot; also, the deformity, usually congenital, which such a foot exhibits; talipes.

Clubfooted (a.) Having a clubfoot.

Clubhand (n.) A short, distorted hand; also, the deformity of having such a hand.

Clubhaul (v. t.) To put on the other tack by dropping the lee anchor as soon as the wind is out of the sails (which brings the vessel's head to the wind), and by cutting the cable as soon as she pays off on the other tack. Clubhauling is attempted only in an exigency.

Clubhouse (n.) A house occupied by a club.

Clubroom (n.) The apartment in which a club meets.

Club-rush (n.) A rushlike plant, the reed mace or cat-tail, or some species of the genus Scirpus. See Bulrush.

Club-shaped (a.) Enlarged gradually at the end, as the antennae of certain insects.

Clucked (imp. & p. p.) of Cluck

Clucking (p pr. & vb. n.) of Cluck

Cluck (v. i.) To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen.

Cluck (v. t.) To call together, or call to follow, as a hen does her chickens.

Cluck (n.) The call of a hen to her chickens.

Cluck (n.) A click. See 3d Click, 2.

Clucking (n.) The noise or call of a brooding hen.

Clue (n.) A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same as Clew.

Clum (interj.) Silence; hush.

Clumber (n.) A kind of field spaniel, with short legs and stout body, which, unlike other spaniels, hunts silently.

Clump (n.) An unshaped piece or mass of wood or other substance.

Clump (n.) A cluster; a group; a thicket.

Clump (n.) The compressed clay of coal strata.

Clump (v. t.) To arrange in a clump or clumps; to cluster; to group.

Clump (v. i.) To tread clumsily; to clamp.

Clumper (n.) To form into clumps or masses.

Clumps (n.) A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enabling the questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected by two persons who answer the questions; -- so called because the players take sides in two clumps or groups, the clump which guesses the word winning the game.

Clumpy (n.) Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless.

Clumsily (adv.) In a clumsy manner; awkwardly; as, to walk clumsily.

Clumsiness (n.) The quality of being clumsy.

Clumsy (superl.) Stiff or benumbed, as with cold.

Clumsy (superl.) Without skill or grace; wanting dexterity, nimbleness, or readiness; stiff; awkward, as if benumbed; unwieldy; unhandy; hence; ill-made, misshapen, or inappropriate; as, a clumsy person; a clumsy workman; clumsy fingers; a clumsy gesture; a clumsy excuse.

Clunch (n.) Indurated clay. See Bind, n., 3.

Clunch (n.) One of the hard beds of the lower chalk.

Clung () imp. & p. p. of Cling.

Clung (v. i.) Wasted away; shrunken.

Cluniac (n.) A monk of the reformed branch of the Benedictine Order, founded in 912 at Cluny (or Clugny) in France. -- Also used as a.

Cluniacensian (a.) Cluniac.

Clupeoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Herring family.

Cluster (n.) A number of things of the same kind growing together; a bunch.

Cluster (n.) A number of similar things collected together or lying contiguous; a group; as, a cluster of islands.

Cluster (n.) A number of individuals grouped together or collected in one place; a crowd; a mob.

Clustered (imp. & p. p.) of Cluster

Clustering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cluster

Cluster (v. i.) To grow in clusters or assemble in groups; to gather or unite in a cluster or clusters.

Cluster (v. t.) To collect into a cluster or clusters; to gather into a bunch or close body.

Clusteringly (adv.) In clusters.

Clustery (n.) Growing in, or full of, clusters; like clusters.

Clutch (n.) A gripe or clinching with, or as with, the fingers or claws; seizure; grasp.

Clutch (n.) The hands, claws, or talons, in the act of grasping firmly; -- often figuratively, for power, rapacity, or cruelty; as, to fall into the clutches of an adversary.

Clutch (n.) A device which is used for coupling shafting, etc., so as to transmit motion, and which may be disengaged at pleasure.

Clutch (n.) Any device for gripping an object, as at the end of a chain or tackle.

Clutch (n.) The nest complement of eggs of a bird.

Clutched (imp. & p. p.) of Clutch

Clutching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clutch

Clutch (n.) To seize, clasp, or gripe with the hand, hands, or claws; -- often figuratively; as, to clutch power.

Clutch (n.) To close tightly; to clinch.

Clutch (v. i.) To reach (at something) as if to grasp; to catch or snatch; -- often followed by at.

Clutter (n.) A confused collection; hence, confusion; disorder; as, the room is in a clutter.

Clutter (n.) Clatter; confused noise.

Cluttered (imp. & p. p.) of Clutter

Cluttering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clutter

Clutter (v. t.) To crowd together in disorder; to fill or cover with things in disorder; to throw into disorder; to disarrange; as, to clutter a room.

Clutter (v. i.) To make a confused noise; to bustle.

Clutter (n.) To clot or coagulate, as blood.

Clypeastroid (a.) Like or related to the genus Clupeaster; -- applied to a group of flattened sea urchins, with a rosette of pores on the upper side.

Clypeate (a.) Shaped like a round buckler or shield; scutate.

Clypeate (a.) Furnished with a shield, or a protective plate or shell.

Clypeiform (a.) Shield-shaped; clypeate.

Clypei (pl. ) of Clypeus

Clypeus (n.) The frontal plate of the head of an insect.

Clysmian (a.) Connected with, or related to, the deluge, or to a cataclysm; as, clysmian changes.

Clysmic (a.) Washing; cleansing.

Clyster (n.) A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of a syringe; an injection; an enema.

Cnemial (a.) Pertaining to the shin bone.

Cnidae (pl. ) of Cnida

Cnida (n.) One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; a nematocyst; a lasso cell.

Cnidaria (n. pl.) A comprehensive group equivalent to the true Coelenterata, i. e., exclusive of the sponges. They are so named from presence of stinging cells (cnidae) in the tissues. See Coelenterata.

Cnidoblast (n.) One of the cells which, in the Coelenterata, develop into cnidae.

Cnidocil (n.) The fine filiform process of a cnidoblast.

Co- () A form of the prefix com-, signifying with, together, in conjunction, joint. It is used before vowels and some consonants. See Com-.

Coacervate (a.) Raised into a pile; collected into a crowd; heaped.

Coacervate (v. t.) To heap up; to pile.

Coacervation (n.) A heaping together.

Coach (n.) A large, closed, four-wheeled carriage, having doors in the sides, and generally a front and back seat inside, each for two persons, and an elevated outside seat in front for the driver.

Coach (n.) A special tutor who assists in preparing a student for examination; a trainer; esp. one who trains a boat's crew for a race.

Coach (n.) A cabin on the after part of the quarter-deck, usually occupied by the captain.

Coach (n.) A first-class passenger car, as distinguished from a drawing-room car, sleeping car, etc. It is sometimes loosely applied to any passenger car.

Coached (imp. & p. p.) of Coach

Coaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coach

Coach (v. t.) To convey in a coach.

Coach (v. t.) To prepare for public examination by private instruction; to train by special instruction.

Coach (v. i.) To drive or to ride in a coach; -- sometimes used with

Coachbox () The seat of a coachman.

Coachdog () One of a breed of dogs trained to accompany carriages; the Dalmatian dog.

Coachee (n.) A coachman

Coachfellow (n.) One of a pair of horses employed to draw a coach; hence (Fig.), a comrade.

Coachmen (pl. ) of Coachman

Coachman (n.) A man whose business is to drive a coach or carriage.

Coachman (n.) A tropical fish of the Atlantic ocean (Dutes auriga); -- called also charioteer. The name refers to a long, lashlike spine of the dorsal fin.

Coachmanship (n.) Skill in driving a coach.

Coachwhip snake () A large, slender, harmless snake of the southern United States (Masticophis flagelliformis).

Coact (v. t.) To force; to compel; to drive.

Coact (v. i.) To act together; to work in concert; to unite.

Coaction (n.) Force; compulsion, either in restraining or impelling.

Coactive (a.) Serving to compel or constrain; compulsory; restrictive.

Coactive (a.) Acting in concurrence; united in action.

Coactively (adv.) In a coactive manner.

Coactivity (n.) Unity of action.

Coadaptation (n.) Mutual adaption.

Coadapted (a.) Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth.

Coadjument (n.) Mutual help; cooperation.

Coadjust (v. t.) To adjust by mutual adaptations.

Coadjustment (n.) Mutual adjustment.

Coadjutant (a.) Mutually assisting or operating; helping.

Coadjutant (n.) An assistant.

Coadjuting (a.) Mutually assisting.

Coadjutive (a.) Rendering mutual aid; coadjutant.

Coadjutor (n.) One who aids another; an assistant; a coworker.

Coadjutor (n.) The assistant of a bishop or of a priest holding a benefice.

Coadjutorship (n.) The state or office of a coadjutor; joint assistance.

Coadjutress (n.) Alt. of Coadjutrix

Coadjutrix (n.) A female coadjutor or assistant.

Coadjuvancy (n.) Joint help; cooperation.

Coadjuvant (a.) Cooperating.

Coadjuvant (n.) An adjuvant.

Coadunate (a.) United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf.

Coadunation (n.) Union, as in one body or mass; unity.

Coadunition (n.) Coadunation.

Coadventure (n.) An adventure in which two or more persons are partakers.

Coadventure (v. i.) To share in a venture.

Coadventurer (n.) A fellow adventurer.

Coafforest (v. t.) To convert into, or add to, a forest.

Coag (n.) See Coak, a kind of tenon.

Coagency (n.) Agency in common; joint agency or agent.

Coagent (n.) An associate in an act; a coworker.

Coagment (v. t.) To join together.

Coagmentation (n.) The act of joining, or the state of being joined, together; union.

Coagulability (n.) The quality of being coagulable; capacity of being coagulated.

Coagulable (a.) Capable of being coagulated.

Coagulant (n.) That which produces coagulation.

Coagulate (a.) Coagulated.

Coagulated (imp. & p. p.) of Coagulate

Coagulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coagulate

Coagulate (v. t.) To cause (a liquid) to change into a curdlike or semisolid state, not by evaporation but by some kind of chemical reaction; to curdle; as, rennet coagulates milk; heat coagulates the white of an egg.

Coagulate (v. i.) To undergo coagulation.

Coagulated (a.) Changed into, or contained in, a coagulum or a curdlike mass; curdled.

Coagulation (n.) The change from a liquid to a thickened, curdlike, insoluble state, not by evaporation, but by some kind of chemical reaction; as, the spontaneous coagulation of freshly drawn blood; the coagulation of milk by rennet, or acid, and the coagulation of egg albumin by heat. Coagulation is generally the change of an albuminous body into an insoluble modification.

Coagulation (n.) The substance or body formed by coagulation.

Coagulative (a.) Having the power to cause coagulation; as, a coagulative agent.

Coagulator (n.) That which causes coagulation.

Coagulatory (a.) Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatory effects.

Coagula (pl. ) of Coagulum

Coagulum (a.) The thick, curdy precipitate formed by the coagulation of albuminous matter; any mass of coagulated matter, as a clot of blood.

Coaita (n.) The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genus Ateles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. See Illustration in Appendix.

Coak (n.) See Coke, n.

Coak (n.) A kind of tenon connecting the face of a scarfed timber with the face of another timber, or a dowel or pin of hard wood or iron uniting timbers.

Coak (n.) A metallic bushing or strengthening piece in the center of a wooden block sheave.

Coak (v. t.) To unite, as timbers, by means of tenons or dowels in the edges or faces.

Coal (n.) A thoroughly charred, and extinguished or still ignited, fragment from wood or other combustible substance; charcoal.

Coal (n.) A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dug from beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting, like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and often affording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter.

Coaled (imp. & p. p.) of Coal

Coaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coal

Coal (v. t.) To burn to charcoal; to char.

Coal (v. t.) To mark or delineate with charcoal.

Coal (v. t.) To supply with coal; as, to coal a steamer.

Coal (v. i.) To take in coal; as, the steamer coaled at Southampton.

Coal-black (a.) As black as coal; jet black; very black.

Coalery (n.) See Colliery.

Coalesced (imp. & p. p.) of Coalesce

Coalescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coalesce

Coalesce (n.) To grow together; to unite by growth into one body; as, the parts separated by a wound coalesce.

Coalesce (n.) To unite in one body or product; to combine into one body or community; as, vapors coalesce.

Coalescence (n.) The act or state of growing together, as similar parts; the act of uniting by natural affinity or attraction; the state of being united; union; concretion.

Coalescent (a.) Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion of similar parts; uniting.

Coalfish (n.) The pollock; -- called also, coalsey, colemie, colmey, coal whiting, etc. See Pollock.

Coalfish (n.) The beshow or candlefish of Alaska.

Coalfish (n.) The cobia.

Coalgoose (n.) The cormorant; -- so called from its black color.

Coalite (v. i.) To unite or coalesce.

Coalite (v. t.) To cause to unite or coalesce.

Coalition (n.) The act of coalescing; union into a body or mass, as of separate bodies or parts; as, a coalition of atoms.

Coalition (n.) A combination, for temporary purposes, of persons, parties, or states, having different interests.

Coalitioner (n.) A coalitionist.

Coalitionist (n.) One who joins or promotes a coalition; one who advocates coalition.

Co-allies (pl. ) of Co-ally

Co-ally (n.) A joint ally.

Coal-meter (n.) A licensed or official coal measurer in London. See Meter.

Coalmouse (n.) A small species of titmouse, with a black head; the coletit.

Coalpit (n.) A pit where coal is dug.

Coalpit (n.) A place where charcoal is made.

Coal tar () A thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by the distillation of bituminous coal in the manufacture of illuminating gas; used for making printer's ink, black varnish, etc. It is a complex mixture from which many substances have been obtained, especially hydrocarbons of the benzene or aromatic series.

Coal-whipper (n.) One who raises coal out of the hold of a ship.

Coal works () A place where coal is dug, including the machinery for raising the coal.

Coaly (n.) Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of the nature of coal.

Coamings (n. pl.) Raised pieces of wood of iron around a hatchway, skylight, or other opening in the deck, to prevent water from running bellow; esp. the fore-and-aft pieces of a hatchway frame as distinguished from the transverse head ledges.

Coannex (v. t.) To annex with something else.

Coaptation (n.) The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of a broken bone or dislocated joint.

Coarct (a.) Alt. of Coarctate

Coarctate (a.) To press together; to crowd; to straiten; to confine closely.

Coarctate (a.) To restrain; to confine.

Coarctate (a.) Pressed together; closely connected; -- applied to insects having the abdomen separated from the thorax only by a constriction.

Coarctation (n.) Confinement to a narrow space.

Coarctation (n.) Pressure; that which presses.

Coarctation (n.) A stricture or narrowing, as of a canal, cavity, or orifice.

Coarse (superl.) Large in bulk, or composed of large parts or particles; of inferior quality or appearance; not fine in material or close in texture; gross; thick; rough; -- opposed to fine; as, coarse sand; coarse thread; coarse cloth; coarse bread.

Coarse (superl.) Not refined; rough; rude; unpolished; gross; indelicate; as, coarse manners; coarse language.

Coarse-grained (a.) Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting in refinement.

Coarsely (adv.) In a coarse manner; roughly; rudely; inelegantly; uncivilly; meanly.

Coarsen (v. t.) To make coarse or vulgar; as, to coarsen one's character.

Coarseness (n.) The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; inelegance; vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, or language.

Coarticulation (n.) The union or articulation of bones to form a joint.

Co-assessor (n.) A joint assessor.

Coast (v. t.) The side of a thing.

Coast (v. t.) The exterior line, limit, or border of a country; frontier border.

Coast (v. t.) The seashore, or land near it.

Coasted (imp. & p. p.) of Coast

Coasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coast

Coast (n.) To draw or keep near; to approach.

Coast (n.) To sail by or near the shore.

Coast (n.) To sail from port to port in the same country.

Coast (n.) To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice.

Coast (v. t.) To draw near to; to approach; to keep near, or by the side of.

Coast (v. t.) To sail by or near; to follow the coast line of.

Coast (v. t.) To conduct along a coast or river bank.

Coastal (a.) Of or pertaining to a coast.

Coaster (n.) A vessel employed in sailing along a coast, or engaged in the coasting trade.

Coaster (n.) One who sails near the shore.

Coasting (a.) Sailing along or near a coast, or running between ports along a coast.

Coasting (n.) A sailing along a coast, or from port to port; a carrying on a coasting trade.

Coasting (n.) Sliding down hill; sliding on a sled upon snow or ice.

Coastwise (adv.) Alt. of Coastways

Coastways (adv.) By way of, or along, the coast.

Coat (n.) An outer garment fitting the upper part of the body; especially, such a garment worn by men.

Coat (n.) A petticoat.

Coat (n.) The habit or vesture of an order of men, indicating the order or office; cloth.

Coat (n.) An external covering like a garment, as fur, skin, wool, husk, or bark; as, the horses coats were sleek.

Coat (n.) A layer of any substance covering another; a cover; a tegument; as, the coats of the eye; the coats of an onion; a coat of tar or varnish.

Coat (n.) Same as Coat of arms. See below.

Coat (n.) A coat card. See below.

Coated (imp. & p. p.) of Coat

Coating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coat

Coat (v. t.) To cover with a coat or outer garment.

Coat (v. t.) To cover with a layer of any substance; as, to coat a jar with tin foil; to coat a ceiling.

Coatee (n.) A coat with short flaps.

Coati (n.) A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to the raccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose.

Coating (n.) A coat or covering; a layer of any substance, as a cover or protection; as, the coating of a retort or vial.

Coating (n.) Cloth for coats; as, an assortment of coatings.

Coatless (a.) Not wearing a coat; also, not possessing a coat.

Coaxed (imp. & p. p.) of Coax

Coaxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coax

Coax (v. t.) To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, or fondling; to wheedle; to soothe.

Coax (n.) A simpleton; a dupe.

Coaxation (n.) The act of croaking.

Coaxer (n.) One who coaxes.

Coaxingly (adv.) In a coaxing manner; by coaxing.

Cob (n.) The top or head of anything.

Cob (n.) A leader or chief; a conspicuous person, esp. a rich covetous person.

Cob (n.) The axis on which the kernels of maize or indian corn grow.

Cob (n.) A spider; perhaps from its shape; it being round like a head.

Cob (n.) A young herring.

Cob (n.) A fish; -- also called miller's thumb.

Cob (n.) A short-legged and stout horse, esp. one used for the saddle.

Cob (n.) A sea mew or gull; esp., the black-backed gull (Larus marinus).

Cob (n.) A lump or piece of anything, usually of a somewhat large size, as of coal, or stone.

Cob (n.) A cobnut; as, Kentish cobs. See Cobnut.

Cob (n.) Clay mixed with straw.

Cob (n.) A punishment consisting of blows inflicted on the buttocks with a strap or a flat piece of wood.

Cob (n.) A Spanish coin formerly current in Ireland, worth abiut 4s. 6d.

Cobbed (imp. & p. p.) of Cob

Cobbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cob

Cob (v. t.) To strike

Cob (v. t.) To break into small pieces, as ore, so as to sort out its better portions.

Cob (v. t.) To punish by striking on the buttocks with a strap, a flat piece of wood, or the like.

Cobaea (n.) A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America. C. scandens is a conservatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers.

Cobalt (n.) A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co.

Cobalt (n.) A commercial name of a crude arsenic used as fly poison.

Cobaltic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said especially of those compounds in which cobalt has higher valence; as, cobaltic oxide.

Cobaltiferous (a.) Containing cobalt.

Cobaltine (n.) Alt. of Cobaltite

Cobaltite (n.) A mineral of a nearly silver-white color, composed of arsenic, sulphur, and cobalt.

Cobaltous (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said esp. of cobalt compounds in which the metal has its lower valence.

Cobbing (a.) Haughty; purse-proud. See Cob, n., 2.

Cobble (n.) A fishing boat. See Coble.

Cobble (n.) A cobblestone.

Cobble (n.) Cob coal. See under Cob.

Cobbled (imp. & p. p.) of Cobble

Cobbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cobble

Cobble (v. t.) To make or mend coarsely; to patch; to botch; as, to cobble shoes.

Cobble (v. t.) To make clumsily.

Cobble (v. t.) To pave with cobblestones.

Cobbler (n.) A mender of shoes.

Cobbler (n.) A clumsy workman.

Cobbler (n.) A beverage. See Sherry cobbler, under Sherry.

Cobblestone (n.) A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; a small boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes.

Cobby (n.) Headstrong; obstinate.

Cobby (n.) Stout; hearty; lively.

Cobelligerent (a.) Carrying on war in conjunction with another power.

Cobelligerent (n.) A nation or state that carries on war in connection with another.

Cobia (n.) An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater; -- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish.

Cobiron (n.) An andiron with a knob at the top.

Cobishop (n.) A joint or coadjutant bishop.

Coble (n.) A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudder extending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originally used on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England.

Cobnut (n.) A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.

Cobnut (n.) A game played by children with nuts.

Coboose (n.) See Caboose.

Cobourg (n.) A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses.

Cobra (n.) See Copra.

Cobra (n.) The cobra de capello.

Cobra de capello () The hooded snake (Naia tripudians), a highly venomous serpent inhabiting India.Naja --

Cobstone (n.) Cobblestone.

Cobswan (n.) A large swan.

Cobwall (n.) A wall made of clay mixed with straw.

Cobweb (n.) The network spread by a spider to catch its prey.

Cobweb (n.) A snare of insidious meshes designed to catch the ignorant and unwary.

Cobweb (n.) That which is thin and unsubstantial, or flimsy and worthless; rubbish.

Cobweb (n.) The European spotted flycatcher.

Cobwebbed (a.) Abounding in cobwebs.

Cobwebby (a.) Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb.

Cobwork (a.) Built of logs, etc., laid horizontally, with the ends dovetailed together at the corners, as in a log house; in marine work, often surrounding a central space filled with stones; as, a cobwork dock or breakwater.

Coca (n.) The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca). In med., called Erythroxylon.

Cocagne (n.) An imaginary country of idleness and luxury.

Cocagne (n.) The land of cockneys; cockneydom; -- a term applied to London and its suburbs.

Cocaine (n.) A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves of coca. It is a bitter, white, crystalline substance, and is remarkable for producing local insensibility to pain.

Cocciferous (a.) Bearing or producing berries; bacciferous; as, cocciferous trees or plants.

Coccinella (n.) A genus of small beetles of many species. They and their larvae feed on aphids or plant lice, and hence are of great benefit to man. Also called ladybirds and ladybugs.

Coccobacteria (pl. ) of Coccobacterium

Coccobacterium (n.) One of the round variety of bacteria, a vegetable organism, generally less than a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter.

Coccolite (n.) A granular variety of pyroxene, green or white in color.

Coccolith (n.) One of a kind of minute, calcareous bodies, probably vegetable, often abundant in deep-sea mud.

Coccosphere (n.) A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up into coccoliths.

Coccosteus (n.) An extinct genus of Devonian ganoid fishes, having the broad plates about the head studded with berrylike tubercles.

Cocculus Indicus (n.) The fruit or berry of the Anamirta Cocculus, a climbing plant of the East Indies. It is a poisonous narcotic and stimulant.

Cocci (pl. ) of Coccus

Coccus (n.) One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.

Coccus (n.) A genus of hemipterous insects, including scale insects, and the cochineal insect (Coccus cacti).

Coccus (n.) A form of bacteria, shaped like a globule.

Coccygeal (a.) Of or pertaining to the coccyx; as, the coccygeal vertebrae.

Coccygeous (a.) Coccygeal.

Coccyges (pl. ) of Coccyx

Coccyx (n.) The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man and tailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebrae more or less consolidated.

Cochineal () A dyestuff consisting of the dried bodies of females of the Coccus cacti, an insect native in Mexico, Central America, etc., and found on several species of cactus, esp. Opuntia cochinellifera.

Cochineal fig () A plant of Central and Southern America, of the Cactus family, extensively cultivated for the sake of the cochineal insect, which lives on it.

Cochin fowl () A large variety of the domestic fowl, originally from Cochin China (Anam).

Cochlea (n.) An appendage of the labyrinth of the internal ear, which is elongated and coiled into a spiral in mammals. See Ear.

Cochlear (a.) Of or pertaining to the cochlea.

Cochleare (n.) A spoon.

Cochleare (n.) A spoonful.

Cocleariform (a.) Spoon-shaped.

Cochleary (a.) Same as Cochleate.

Cochleate (a.) Alt. of Cochleated

Cochleated (a.) Having the form of a snail shell; spiral; turbinated.

Cock (n.) The male of birds, particularly of gallinaceous or domestic fowls.

Cock (n.) A vane in the shape of a cock; a weathercock.

Cock (n.) A chief man; a leader or master.

Cock (n.) The crow of a cock, esp. the first crow in the morning; cockcrow.

Cock (n.) A faucet or valve.

Cock (n.) The style of gnomon of a dial.

Cock (n.) The indicator of a balance.

Cock (n.) The bridge piece which affords a bearing for the pivot of a balance in a clock or watch.

Cocked (imp. & p. p.) of Cock

Cocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cock

Cock (v. t.) To set erect; to turn up.

Cock (v. t.) To shape, as a hat, by turning up the brim.

Cock (v. t.) To set on one side in a pert or jaunty manner.

Cock (v. t.) To turn (the eye) obliquely and partially close its lid, as an expression of derision or insinuation.

Cock (v. i.) To strut; to swagger; to look big, pert, or menacing.

Cock (n.) The act of cocking; also, the turn so given; as, a cock of the eyes; to give a hat a saucy cock.

Cock (n.) The notch of an arrow or crossbow.

Cock (n.) The hammer in the lock of a firearm.

Cock (v. t.) To draw the hammer of (a firearm) fully back and set it for firing.

Cock (v. i.) To draw back the hammer of a firearm, and set it for firing.

Cock (n.) A small concial pile of hay.

Cock (v. t.) To put into cocks or heaps, as hay.

Cock (n.) A small boat.

Cock (n.) A corruption or disguise of the word God, used in oaths.

Cockade (n.) A badge, usually in the form of a rosette, or knot, and generally worn upon the hat; -- used as an indication of military or naval service, or party allegiance, and in England as a part of the livery to indicate that the wearer is the servant of a military or naval officer.

Cockaded (a.) Wearing a cockade.

Cock-a-hoop (a.) Boastful; defiant; exulting. Also used adverbially.

Cockal (n.) A game played with sheep's bones instead of dice

Cockal (n.) The bone used in playing the game; -- called also huckle bone.

Cockaleekie (n.) A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned, and boiled with leeks and prunes.

Cockamaroo (n.) The Russian variety of bagatelle.

Cockateel (n.) An Australian parrot (Calopsitta Novae-Hollandiae); -- so called from its note.

Cockatoo (n.) A bird of the Parrot family, of the subfamily Cacatuinae, having a short, strong, and much curved beak, and the head ornamented with a crest, which can be raised or depressed at will. There are several genera and many species; as the broad-crested (Plictolophus, / Cacatua, cristatus), the sulphur-crested (P. galeritus), etc. The palm or great black cockatoo of Australia is Microglossus aterrimus.

Cockatrice (n.) A fabulous serpent whose breath and look were said to be fatal. See Basilisk.

Cockatrice (n.) A representation of this serpent. It has the head, wings, and legs of a bird, and tail of a serpent.

Cockatrice (n.) A venomous serpent which which cannot now be identified.

Cockatrice (n.) Any venomous or deadly thing.

Cockbill (v. t.) To tilt up one end of so as to make almost vertical; as, to cockbill the yards as a sign of mourning.

Cockboat (n.) A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.

Cock-brained (a.) Giddy; rash.

Cockchafer (n.) A beetle of the genus Melolontha (esp. M. vulgaris) and allied genera; -- called also May bug, chafer, or dorbeetle.

Cockcrow (n.) Alt. of Cockcrowing

Cockcrowing (n.) The time at which cocks first crow; the early morning.

Cockered (imp. & p. p.) of Cocker

Cockering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cocker

Cocker (v. t.) To treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; to pamper.

Cocker (n.) One given to cockfighting.

Cocker (n.) A small dog of the spaniel kind, used for starting up woodcocks, etc.

Cocker (n.) A rustic high shoe or half-boots.

Cockerel (n.) A young cock.

Cocket (n.) Pert; saucy.

Cocket (n.) A customhouse seal; a certified document given to a shipper as a warrant that his goods have been duly entered and have paid duty.

Cocket (n.) An office in a customhouse where goods intended for export are entered.

Cocket (n.) A measure for bread.

Cockeye (n.) A squinting eye.

Cockeye (n.) The socket in the ball of a millstone, which sits on the cockhead.

Cockfight (n.) A match or contest of gamecocks.

Cockfighting (n.) The act or practice of pitting gamecocks to fight.

Cockfighting (a.) Addicted to cockfighting.

Cockhead (n.) The rounded or pointed top of a grinding mill spindle, forming a pivot on which the stone is balanced.

Cockhorse (n.) A child's rocking-horse.

Cockhorse (n.) A high or tall horse.

Cockhorse (a.) Lifted up, as one is on a tall horse.

Cockhorse (a.) Lofty in feeling; exultant; proud; upstart.

Cockieleekie (n.) Same as Cockaleekie.

Cocking (n.) Cockfighting.

Cockle (n.) A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium, especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied to similar shells of other genera.

Cockle (n.) A cockleshell.

Cockle (n.) The mineral black tourmaline or schorl; -- so called by the Cornish miners.

Cockle (n.) The fire chamber of a furnace.

Cockle (n.) A hop-drying kiln; an oast.

Cockle (n.) The dome of a heating furnace.

Cockled (imp. & p. p.) of Cockle

Cockling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cockle

Cockle (v. t.) To cause to contract into wrinkles or ridges, as some kinds of cloth after a wetting.

Cockle (n.) A plant or weed that grows among grain; the corn rose (Luchnis Githage).

Cockle (n.) The Lotium, or darnel.

Cocklebur (n.) A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; one of several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur.

Cockled (a.) Inclosed in a shell.

Cockled (a.) Wrinkled; puckered.

Cockler (n.) One who takes and sells cockles.

Cockleshell (n.) One of the shells or valves of a cockle.

Cockleshell (n.) A light boat.

Cockloft (n.) An upper loft; a garret; the highest room in a building.

Cockmaster (n.) One who breeds gamecocks.

Cockmatch (n.) A cockfight.

Cockneys (pl. ) of Cockney

Cockney (n.) An effeminate person; a spoilt child.

Cockney (n.) A native or resident of the city of London; -- used contemptuously.

Cockney (a.) Of or relating to, or like, cockneys.

Cockneydom (n.) The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively.

Cockneyfy (v. t.) To form with the manners or character of a cockney.

Cockneyish (a.) Characteristic of, or resembling, cockneys.

Cockneyism (n.) The characteristics, manners, or dialect, of a cockney.

Cock-padle (n.) See Lumpfish.

Cockpit (n.) A pit, or inclosed area, for cockfights.

Cockpit (n.) The Privy Council room at Westminster; -- so called because built on the site of the cockpit of Whitehall palace.

Cockpit (n.) That part of a war vessel appropriated to the wounded during an engagement.

Cockpit (n.) In yachts and other small vessels, a space lower than the rest of the deck, which affords easy access to the cabin.

Cockroach (n.) An orthopterous insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.

Cockscomb (n.) See Coxcomb.

Cockscomb (n.) A plant (Celosia cristata), of many varieties, cultivated for its broad, fantastic spikes of brilliant flowers; -- sometimes called garden cockscomb. Also the Pedicularis, or lousewort, the Rhinanthus Crista-galli, and the Onobrychis Crista-galli.

Cockshead (n.) A leguminous herb (Onobrychis Caput-galli), having small spiny-crested pods.

Cockshut (n.) A kind of net to catch woodcock.

Cockshy (n.) A game in which trinkets are set upon sticks, to be thrown at by the players; -- so called from an ancient popular sport which consisted in shying or throwing cudgels at live cocks.

Cockshy (n.) An object at which stones are flung.

Cockspur (n.) A variety of Crataegus, or hawthorn (C. Crus-galli), having long, straight thorns; -- called also Cockspur thorn.

Cocksure (a.) Perfectly safe.

Cocksure (a.) Quite certain.

Cockswain (n.) The steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of a boat and its crew.

Cocktail (n.) A beverage made of brandy, whisky, or gin, iced, flavored, and sweetened.

Cocktail (n.) A horse, not of pure breed, but having only one eighth or one sixteenth impure blood in his veins.

Cocktail (n.) A mean, half-hearted fellow; a coward.

Cocktail (n.) A species of rove beetle; -- so called from its habit of elevating the tail.

Cockup (n.) A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Lates calcarifer); -- also called begti.

Cockweed (n.) Peppergrass.

Cocky (a.) Pert.

Coco () Alt. of Coco palm

Coco palm () See Cocoa.

Cocoa () Alt. of Cocoa palm

Cocoa palm () A palm tree producing the cocoanut (Cocos nucifera). It grows in nearly all tropical countries, attaining a height of sixty or eighty feet. The trunk is without branches, and has a tuft of leaves at the top, each being fifteen or twenty feet in length, and at the base of these the nuts hang in clusters; the cocoanut tree.

Cocoa (n.) A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, and used in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa or cocoa shells.

Cocoanut (n.) The large, hard-shelled nut of the cocoa palm. It yields an agreeable milky liquid and a white meat or albumen much used as food and in making oil.

Cocobolo (n.) Alt. of Cocobolas

Cocobolas (n.) A very beautiful and hard wood, obtained in the West India Islands. It is used in cabinetmaking, for the handles of tools, and for various fancy articles.

Cocoon (n.) An oblong case in which the silkworm lies in its chrysalis state. It is formed of threads of silk spun by the worm just before leaving the larval state. From these the silk of commerce is prepared.

Cocoon (n.) The case constructed by any insect to contain its larva or pupa.

Cocoon (n.) The case of silk made by spiders to protect their eggs.

Cocoon (n.) The egg cases of mucus, etc., made by leeches and other worms.

Cocoonery (n.) A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and forming cocoons.

Coctible (a.) Capable of being cooked.

Coctile (a.) Made by baking, or exposing to heat, as a brick.

Coction (n.) Act of boiling.

Coction (n.) Digestion.

Coction (n.) The change which the humorists believed morbific matter undergoes before elimination.

Cocus wood () A West Indian wood, used for making flutes and other musical instruments.

Cod (n.) A husk; a pod; as, a peascod.

Cod (n.) A small bag or pouch.

Cod (n.) The scrotum.

Cod (n.) A pillow or cushion.

Cod (n.) An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), taken in immense numbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It is especially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. It is salted and dried in large quantities.

Coda (n.) A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a composition.

Codder (n.) A gatherer of cods or peas.

Codding (a.) Lustful.

Coddled (imp. & p. p.) of Coddle

Coddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coddle

Coddle (v. t.) To parboil, or soften by boiling.

Coddle (v. t.) To treat with excessive tenderness; to pamper.

Coddymoddy (n.) A gull in the plumage of its first year.

Code (n.) A body of law, sanctioned by legislation, in which the rules of law to be specifically applied by the courts are set forth in systematic form; a compilation of laws by public authority; a digest.

Code (n.) Any system of rules or regulations relating to one subject; as, the medical code, a system of rules for the regulation of the professional conduct of physicians; the naval code, a system of rules for making communications at sea means of signals.

Codefendant (n.) A joint defendant.

Codeine (n.) One of the opium alkaloids; a white crystalline substance, C18H21NO3, similar to and regarded as a derivative of morphine, but much feebler in its action; -- called also codeia.

Codetta (n.) A short passage connecting two sections, but not forming part of either; a short coda.

Codices (pl. ) of Codex

Codex (n.) A book; a manuscript.

Codex (n.) A collection or digest of laws; a code.

Codex (n.) An ancient manuscript of the Sacred Scriptures, or any part of them, particularly the New Testament.

Codex (n.) A collection of canons.

Codfish (n.) A kind of fish. Same as Cod.

Codger (n.) A miser or mean person.

Codger (n.) A singular or odd person; -- a familiar, humorous, or depreciatory appellation.

Codical (a.) Relating to a codex, or a code.

Codicil (n.) A clause added to a will.

Codicillary (a.) Of the nature of a codicil.

Codification (n.) The act or process of codifying or reducing laws to a code.

Codifier (n.) One who codifies.

Codified (imp. & p. p.) of Codify

Codifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Codify

Codify (v. t.) To reduce to a code, as laws.

Codilla (n.) The coarse tow of flax and hemp.

Codille (n.) A term at omber, signifying that the game is won.

Codist (n.) A codifier; a maker of codes.

Codle (v. t.) See Coddle.

Codlin (n.) Alt. of Codling

Codling (n.) An apple fit to stew or coddle.

Codling (n.) An immature apple.

Codling (n.) A young cod; also, a hake.

Cod liver (n.) The liver of the common cod and allied species.

Codpiece (n.) A part of male dress in front of the breeches, formerly made very conspicuous.

Coecilian (n.) See Caecilian.

Coeducation (n.) An educating together, as of persons of different sexes or races.

Coefficacy (n.) Joint efficacy.

Coefficiency (n.) Joint efficiency; cooperation.

Coefficient (a.) Cooperating; acting together to produce an effect.

Coefficient (n.) That which unites in action with something else to produce the same effect.

Coefficient (n.) A number or letter put before a letter or quantity, known or unknown, to show how many times the latter is to be taken; as, 6x; bx; here 6 and b are coefficients of x.

Coefficient (n.) A number, commonly used in computation as a factor, expressing the amount of some change or effect under certain fixed conditions as to temperature, length, volume, etc.; as, the coefficient of expansion; the coefficient of friction.

Coehorn (n.) A small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles, and light enough to be carried short distances by two men.

Coelacanth (a.) Having hollow spines, as some ganoid fishes.

Coelentera (n. pl.) Alt. of Coelenterata

Coelenterata (n. pl.) A comprehensive group of Invertebrata, mostly marine, comprising the Anthozoa, Hydrozoa, and Ctenophora. The name implies that the stomach and body cavities are one. The group is sometimes enlarged so as to include the sponges.

Coelenterate (a.) Belonging to the Coelentera.

Coelenterate (n.) One of the Coelentera.

Coelia (n.) A cavity.

Coeliac (a.) Alt. of Celiac

Celiac (a.) Relating to the abdomen, or to the cavity of the abdomen.

Coelodont (a.) Having hollow teeth; -- said of a group lizards.

Coelodont (n.) One of a group of lizards having hollow teeth.

Coelospermous (a.) Hollow-seeded; having the ventral face of the seedlike carpels incurved at the ends, as in coriander seed.

Coelum (n.) See Body cavity, under Body.

Coemption (n.) The act of buying the whole quantity of any commodity.

Coendoo (n.) The Brazilian porcupine (Cercolades, / Sphingurus, prehensiles), remarkable for its prehensile tail.

Coenenchym (n.) Alt. of Coenenchyma

Coenenchyma (n.) The common tissue which unites the polyps or zooids of a compound anthozoan or coral. It may be soft or more or less ossified. See Coral.

Coenesthesis (n.) Common sensation or general sensibility, as distinguished from the special sensations which are located in, or ascribed to, separate organs, as the eye and ear. It is supposed to depend on the ganglionic system.

Coenobite (n.) See Cenobite.

Coenoecium (n.) The common tissue which unites the various zooids of a bryozoan.

Coenogamy (n.) The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexual intercourse among its members; -- as in certain primitive tribes or communistic societies.

Coenosarc (n.) The common soft tissue which unites the polyps of a compound hydroid. See Hydroidea.

Coenurus (n.) The larval stage of a tapeworm (Taenia coenurus) which forms bladderlike sacs in the brain of sheep, causing the fatal disease known as water brain, vertigo, staggers or gid.

Coequal (a.) Being on an equality in rank or power.

Coequal (n.) One who is on an equality with another.

Coequality (n.) The state of being on an equality, as in rank or power.

Coequally (adv.) With coequality.

Coerced (imp. & p. p.) of Coerce

Coercing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coerce

Coerce (v. t.) To restrain by force, especially by law or authority; to repress; to curb.

Coerce (v. t.) To compel or constrain to any action; as, to coerce a man to vote for a certain candidate.

Coerce (v. t.) To compel or enforce; as, to coerce obedience.

Coercible (a.) Capable of being coerced.

Coercion (n.) The act or process of coercing.

Coercion (n.) The application to another of either physical or moral force. When the force is physical, and cannot be resisted, then the act produced by it is a nullity, so far as concerns the party coerced. When the force is moral, then the act, though voidable, is imputable to the party doing it, unless he be so paralyzed by terror as to act convulsively. At the same time coercion is not negatived by the fact of submission under force. Coactus volui (I consented under compulsion) is the condition of mind which, when there is volition forced by coercion, annuls the result of such coercion.

Coercitive (a.) Coercive.

Coercive (a.) Serving or intended to coerce; having power to constrain.

Coerulignone (n.) A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in the purification of crude wood vinegar. It is regarded as a complex quinone derivative of diphenyl; -- called also cedriret.

Coessential (a.) Partaking of the same essence.

Coessentiality (n.) Participation of the same essence.

Coestablishment (n.) Joint establishment.

Coestate (n.) Joint estate.

Coetanean (n.) A person coetaneous with another; a contemporary.

Coetaneous (a.) Of the same age; beginning to exist at the same time; contemporaneous.

Coeternal (a.) Equally eternal.

Coeternity (n.) Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being; equal eternity.

Coeval (n.) Of the same age; existing during the same period of time, especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with.

Coeval (n.) One of the same age; a contemporary.

Coevous (a.) Coeval

Coexecutor (n.) A joint executor.

Coexecutrix (n.) A joint executrix.

Coexisted (imp. & p. p.) of Coexist

Coexisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coexist

Coexist (v. i.) To exist at the same time; -- sometimes followed by with.

Coexistence (n.) Existence at the same time with another; -- contemporary existence.

Coexistent (a.) Existing at the same time with another.

Coexistent (n.) That which coexists with another.

Coexisting (a.) Coexistent.

Coextended (imp. & p. p.) of Coextend

Coextending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coextend

Coextend (v. t.) To extend through the same space or time with another; to extend to the same degree.

Coextension (n.) The act of extending equally, or the state of being equally extended.

Coextensive (a.) Equally extensive; having equal extent; as, consciousness and knowledge are coextensive.

Coffee (n.) The beans or berries (pyrenes) obtained from the drupes of a small evergreen tree of the genus Coffea, growing in Abyssinia, Arabia, Persia, and other warm regions of Asia and Africa, and also in tropical America.

Coffee (n.) The coffee tree.

Coffee (n.) The beverage made from the roasted and ground berry.

Coffeehouse (n.) A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffee and other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation.

Coffeeman (n.) One who keeps a coffeehouse.

Coffeepot (n.) A covered pot in which coffee is prepared, or is brought upon the table for drinking.

Coffeeroom (n.) A public room where coffee and other refreshments may be obtained.

Coffer (n.) A casket, chest, or trunk; especially, one used for keeping money or other valuables.

Coffer (n.) Fig.: Treasure or funds; -- usually in the plural.

Coffer (n.) A panel deeply recessed in the ceiling of a vault, dome, or portico; a caisson.

Coffer (n.) A trench dug in the bottom of a dry moat, and extending across it, to enable the besieged to defend it by a raking fire.

Coffer (n.) The chamber of a canal lock; also, a caisson or a cofferdam.

Coffer (v. t.) To put into a coffer.

Coffer (v. t.) To secure from leaking, as a shaft, by ramming clay behind the masonry or timbering.

Coffer (v. t.) To form with or in a coffer or coffers; to furnish with a coffer or coffers.

Cofferdam (n.) A water-tight inclosure, as of piles packed with clay, from which the water is pumped to expose the bottom (of a river, etc.) and permit the laying of foundations, building of piers, etc.

Cofferer (n.) One who keeps treasures in a coffer.

Cofferwork (n.) Rubblework faced with stone.

Coffin (n.) The case in which a dead human body is inclosed for burial.

Coffin (n.) A basket.

Coffin (n.) A casing or crust, or a mold, of pastry, as for a pie.

Coffin (n.) A conical paper bag, used by grocers.

Coffin (n.) The hollow crust or hoof of a horse's foot, below the coronet, in which is the coffin bone.

Coffined (imp. & p. p.) of Coffin

Coffining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coffin

Coffin (v. t.) To inclose in, or as in, a coffin.

Coffinless (a.) Having no coffin.

Coffle (n.) A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.

Cogged (imp. & p. p.) of Cog

Cogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cog

Cog (v. t.) To seduce, or draw away, by adulation, artifice, or falsehood; to wheedle; to cozen; to cheat.

Cog (v. t.) To obtrude or thrust in, by falsehood or deception; as, to cog in a word; to palm off.

Cog (v. i.) To deceive; to cheat; to play false; to lie; to wheedle; to cajole.

Cog (n.) A trick or deception; a falsehood.

Cog (n.) A tooth, cam, or catch for imparting or receiving motion, as on a gear wheel, or a lifter or wiper on a shaft; originally, a separate piece of wood set in a mortise in the face of a wheel.

Cog (n.) A kind of tenon on the end of a joist, received into a notch in a bearing timber, and resting flush with its upper surface.

Cog (n.) A tenon in a scarf joint; a coak.

Cog (n.) One of the rough pillars of stone or coal left to support the roof of a mine.

Cog (v. t.) To furnish with a cog or cogs.

Cog (n.) A small fishing boat.

Cogency (n.) The quality of being cogent; power of compelling conviction; conclusiveness; force.

Cogenial (a.) Congenial.

Cogent (p. a.) Compelling, in a physical sense; powerful.

Cogent (p. a.) Having the power to compel conviction or move the will; constraining; conclusive; forcible; powerful; not easily reasisted.

Cogently (adv.) In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincingly; conclusively.

Cogger (n.) A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper.

Coggery (n.) Trick; deception.

Coggle (n.) A small fishing boat.

Coggle (n.) A cobblestone.

Cogitability (n.) The quality of being cogitable; conceivableness.

Cogitable (a.) Capable of being brought before the mind as a thought or idea; conceivable; thinkable.

Cogitabund (a.) Full of thought; thoughtful.

Cogitated (imp. & p. p.) of Cogitate

Cogitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cogitate

Cogitate (v. i.) To engage in continuous thought; to think.

Cogitate (v. t.) To think over; to plan.

Cogitation (n.) The act of thinking; thought; meditation; contemplation.

Cogitative (a.) Possessing, or pertaining to, the power of thinking or meditating.

Cogitative (a.) Given to thought or contemplation.

Cogman (n.) A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth.

Cognac (n.) A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac.

Cognate (a.) Allied by blood; kindred by birth; specifically (Law), related on the mother's side.

Cognate (a.) Of the same or a similar nature; of the same family; proceeding from the same stock or root; allied; kindred; as, a cognate language.

Cognate (n.) One who is related to another on the female side.

Cognate (n.) One of a number of things allied in origin or nature; as, certain letters are cognates.

Cognateness (n.) The state of being cognate.

Cognati (n. pl.) Relatives by the mother's side.

Cognation (n.) Relationship by blood; descent from the same original; kindred.

Cognation (n.) Participation of the same nature.

Cognation (n.) That tie of consanguinity which exists between persons descended from the same mother; -- used in distinction from agnation.

Cognatus (n.) A person connected through cognation.

Cognisor (n.) Alt. of Cognisee

Cognisee (n.) See Cognizor, Cognizee.

Cognition (v. t.) The act of knowing; knowledge; perception.

Cognition (v. t.) That which is known.

Cognitive (a.) Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding; as, cognitive power.

Cognizable (a.) Capable of being known or apprehended; as, cognizable causes.

Cognizable (a.) Fitted to be a subject of judicial investigation; capable of being judicially heard and determined.

Cognizably (adv.) In a cognizable manner.

Cognizance (n.) Apprehension by the understanding; perception; observation.

Cognizance (n.) Recollection; recognition.

Cognizance (n.) Jurisdiction, or the power given by law to hear and decide controversies.

Cognizance (n.) The hearing a matter judicially.

Cognizance (n.) An acknowledgment of a fine of lands and tenements or confession of a thing done.

Cognizance (n.) A form of defense in the action of replevin, by which the defendant insists that the goods were lawfully taken, as a distress, by defendant, acting as servant for another.

Cognizance (n.) The distinguishing mark worn by an armed knight, usually upon the helmet, and by his retainers and followers: Hence, in general, a badge worn by a retainer or dependent, to indicate the person or party to which he belonged; a token by which a thing may be known.

Cognizant (a.) Having cognizance or knowledge. (of).

Cognize (v. t.) To know or perceive; to recognize.

Cognizee (n.) One to whom a fine of land was acknowledged.

Cognizor (n.) One who acknowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a fine; the defendant.

Cognomen (n.) The last of the three names of a person among the ancient Romans, denoting his house or family.

Cognomen (n.) A surname.

Cognominal (a.) Of or pertaining to a cognomen; of the nature of a surname.

Cognominal (n.) One bearing the same name; a namesake.

Cognomination (n.) A cognomen or surname.

Cognoscence (n.) Cognizance.

Cognoscenti (pl. ) of Cognoscente

Cognoscente (n.) A connoisseur.

Cognoscibility (n.) The quality of being cognoscible.

Cognoscible (a.) Capable of being known.

Cognoscible (a.) Liable to judicial investigation.

Cognoscitive (a.) Having the power of knowing.

Cognovit (n.) An instrument in writing whereby a defendant in an action acknowledges a plaintiff's demand to be just.

Coguardian (n.) A joint guardian.

Cogue (n.) A small wooden vessel; a pail.

Cogware (n.) A coarse, narrow cloth, like frieze, used by the lower classes in the sixteenth century.

Cogwheel (n.) A wheel with cogs or teeth; a gear wheel. See Illust. of Gearing.

Cohabited (imp. & p. p.) of Cohabit

Cohabiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cohabit

Cohabit (v.) To inhabit or reside in company, or in the same place or country.

Cohabit (v.) To dwell or live together as husband and wife.

Cohabitant (n.) One who dwells with another, or in the same place or country.

Cohabitation (n.) The act or state of dwelling together, or in the same place with another.

Cohabitation (n.) The living together of a man and woman in supposed sexual relationship.

Cohabiter (n.) A cohabitant.

Coheir (n.) A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitled to an inheritance.

Coheiress (n.) A female heir who inherits with other heiresses; a joint heiress.

Coheirship (n.) The state of being a coheir.

Coherald (n.) A joint herald.

Cohered (imp. & p. p.) of Cohere

Cohering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cohere

Cohere (a.) To stick together; to cleave; to be united; to hold fast, as parts of the same mass.

Cohere (a.) To be united or connected together in subordination to one purpose; to follow naturally and logically, as the parts of a discourse, or as arguments in a train of reasoning; to be logically consistent.

Cohere (a.) To suit; to agree; to fit.

Coherence (n.) Alt. of Coherency

Coherency (n.) A sticking or cleaving together; union of parts of the same body; cohesion.

Coherency (n.) Connection or dependence, proceeding from the subordination of the parts of a thing to one principle or purpose, as in the parts of a discourse, or of a system of philosophy; consecutiveness.

Coherent (a.) Sticking together; cleaving; as the parts of bodies; solid or fluid.

Coherent (a.) Composed of mutually dependent parts; making a logical whole; consistent; as, a coherent plan, argument, or discourse.

Coherent (a.) Logically consistent; -- applied to persons; as, a coherent thinker.

Coherent (a.) Suitable or suited; adapted; accordant.

Coherently (adv.) In a coherent manner.

Cohesibility (n.) The state of being cohesible.

Cohesible (a.) Capable of cohesion.

Cohesion (n.) The act or state of sticking together; close union.

Cohesion (n.) That from of attraction by which the particles of a body are united throughout the mass, whether like or unlike; -- distinguished from adhesion, which unites bodies by their adjacent surfaces.

Cohesion (n.) Logical agreement and dependence; as, the cohesion of ideas.

Cohesive (a.) Holding the particles of a homogeneous body together; as, cohesive attraction; producing cohesion; as, a cohesive force.

Cohesive (a.) Cohering, or sticking together, as in a mass; capable of cohering; tending to cohere; as, cohesive clay.

Cohibited (imp. & p. p.) of Cohibit

Cohibiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cohibit

Cohibit (v. t.) To restrain.

Cohibition (n.) Hindrance; restraint.

Cohobated (imp. & p. p.) of Cohobate

Cohobating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cohobate

Cohobate (v. t.) To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon the matter remaining in the vessel.

Cohobation (n.) The process of cohobating.

Cohorn (n.) See Coehorn.

Cohort (n.) A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part of a legion.

Cohort (n.) Any band or body of warriors.

Cohort (n.) A natural group of orders of plants, less comprehensive than a class.

Cohosh (n.) A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whose rootstock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root. The name is sometimes also given to the Cimicifuga racemosa, and to two species of Actaea, plants of the Crowfoot family.

Coif (n.) A cap.

Coif (n.) A close-fitting cap covering the sides of the head, like a small hood without a cape.

Coif (n.) An official headdress, such as that worn by certain judges in England.

Coif (v. t.) To cover or dress with, or as with, a coif.

Coifed (a.) Wearing a coif.

Coiffure (n.) A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair.

Coigne (n.) A quoin.

Coigne (n.) Alt. of Coigny

Coigny (n.) The practice of quartering one's self as landlord on a tenant; a quartering of one's self on anybody.

Coiled (imp. & p. p.) of Coil

Coiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coil

Coil (v. t.) To wind cylindrically or spirally; as, to coil a rope when not in use; the snake coiled itself before springing.

Coil (v. t.) To encircle and hold with, or as with, coils.

Coil (v. i.) To wind itself cylindrically or spirally; to form a coil; to wind; -- often with about or around.

Coil (n.) A ring, series of rings, or spiral, into which a rope, or other like thing, is wound.

Coil (n.) Fig.: Entanglement; toil; mesh; perplexity.

Coil (n.) A series of connected pipes in rows or layers, as in a steam heating apparatus.

Coil (n.) A noise, tumult, bustle, or confusion.

Coilon (n.) A testicle.

Coin (n.) A quoin; a corner or external angle; a wedge. See Coigne, and Quoin.

Coin (n.) A piece of metal on which certain characters are stamped by government authority, making it legally current as money; -- much used in a collective sense.

Coin (n.) That which serves for payment or recompense.

Coined (imp. & p. p.) of Coin

Coining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coin

Coin (v. t.) To make of a definite fineness, and convert into coins, as a mass of metal; to mint; to manufacture; as, to coin silver dollars; to coin a medal.

Coin (v. t.) To make or fabricate; to invent; to originate; as, to coin a word.

Coin (v. t.) To acquire rapidly, as money; to make.

Coin (v. i.) To manufacture counterfeit money.

Coinage (v. t.) The act or process of converting metal into money.

Coinage (v. t.) Coins; the aggregate coin of a time or place.

Coinage (v. t.) The cost or expense of coining money.

Coinage (v. t.) The act or process of fabricating or inventing; formation; fabrication; that which is fabricated or forged.

Coincided (imp. & p. p.) of Coincide

Coinciding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coincide

Coincide (n.) To occupy the same place in space, as two equal triangles, when placed one on the other.

Coincide (n.) To occur at the same time; to be contemporaneous; as, the fall of Granada coincided with the discovery of America.

Coincide (n.) To correspond exactly; to agree; to concur; as, our aims coincide.

Coincidence (n.) The condition of occupying the same place in space; as, the coincidence of circles, surfaces, etc.

Coincidence (n.) The condition or fact of happening at the same time; as, the coincidence of the deaths of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson.

Coincidence (n.) Exact correspondence in nature, character, result, circumstances, etc.; concurrence; agreement.

Coincibency (n.) Coincidence.

Coincident (a.) Having coincidence; occupying the same place; contemporaneous; concurrent; -- followed by with.

Coincident (n.) One of two or more coincident events; a coincidence.

Coincidental (a.) Coincident.

Coincidently (adv.) With coincidence.

Coincider (n.) One who coincides with another in an opinion.

Coindication (n.) One of several signs or symptoms indicating the same fact; as, a coindication of disease.

Coiner (n.) One who makes or stamps coin; a maker of money; -- usually, a maker of counterfeit money.

Coiner (n.) An inventor or maker, as of words.

Coinhabitant (n.) One who dwells with another, or with others.

Coinhere (v. i.) To inhere or exist together, as in one substance.

Coinheritance (n.) Joint inheritance.

Coinheritor (n.) A coheir.

Coinitial (a.) Having a common beginning.

Coinquinate (v. t.) To pollute.

Coinquination (n.) Defilement.

Coinstantaneous (a.) Happening at the same instant.

Cointense (a.) Equal in intensity or degree; as, the relations between 6 and 12, and 8 and 16, are cointense.

Cointension (n.) The condition of being of equal in intensity; -- applied to relations; as, 3:6 and 6:12 are relations of cointension.

Coir (n.) A material for cordage, matting, etc., consisting of the prepared fiber of the outer husk of the cocoanut.

Coir (n.) Cordage or cables, made of this material.

Coistril (n.) An inferior groom or lad employed by an esquire to carry the knight's arms and other necessaries.

Coistril (n.) A mean, paltry fellow; a coward.

Coit (n.) A quoit.

Coit (v. t.) To throw, as a stone. [Obs.] See Quoit.

Coition (n.) A coming together; sexual intercourse; copulation.

Cojoin (v. t.) To join; to conjoin.

Cojuror (n.) One who swears to another's credibility.

Coke (n.) Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, or other volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or by distillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where / smokeless fire is required.

Coke (v. t.) To convert into coke.

Cokenay (n.) A cockney.

Cokernut (n.) The cocoanut.

Cokes (n.) A simpleton; a gull; a dupe.

Cokewold (n.) Cuckold.

Col- () A prefix signifying with, together. See Com-.

Col (n.) A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains; the pass over such a ridge.

Colaborer (n.) One who labors with another; an associate in labor.

Colander (n.) A utensil with a bottom perforated with little holes for straining liquids, mashed vegetable pulp, etc.; a strainer of wickerwork, perforated metal, or the like.

Colation (n.) The act or process of straining or filtering.

Colatitude (n.) The complement of the latitude, or the difference between any latitude and ninety degrees.

Colature (n.) The process of straining; the matter strained; a strainer.

Colbertine (n.) A kind of lace.

Colchicine (n.) A powerful vegetable alkaloid, C17H19NO5, extracted from the Colchicum autumnale, or meadow saffron, as a white or yellowish amorphous powder, with a harsh, bitter taste; -- called also colchicia.

Colchicum (n.) A genus of bulbous-rooted plants found in many parts of Europe, including the meadow saffron.

Colcothar (n.) Polishing rouge; a reddish brown oxide of iron, used in polishing glass, and also as a pigment; -- called also crocus Martis.

Cold (n.) Deprived of heat, or having a low temperature; not warm or hot; gelid; frigid.

Cold (n.) Lacking the sensation of warmth; suffering from the absence of heat; chilly; shivering; as, to be cold.

Cold (n.) Not pungent or acrid.

Cold (n.) Wanting in ardor, intensity, warmth, zeal, or passion; spiritless; unconcerned; reserved.

Cold (n.) Unwelcome; disagreeable; unsatisfactory.

Cold (n.) Wanting in power to excite; dull; uninteresting.

Cold (n.) Affecting the sense of smell (as of hunting dogs) but feebly; having lost its odor; as, a cold scent.

Cold (n.) Not sensitive; not acute.

Cold (n.) Distant; -- said, in the game of hunting for some object, of a seeker remote from the thing concealed.

Cold (n.) Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8.

Cold (n.) The relative absence of heat or warmth.

Cold (n.) The sensation produced by the escape of heat; chilliness or chillness.

Cold (n.) A morbid state of the animal system produced by exposure to cold or dampness; a catarrh.

Cold (v. i.) To become cold.

Cold-blooded (a.) Having cold blood; -- said of fish or animals whose blood is but little warmer than the water or air about them.

Cold-blooded (a.) Deficient in sensibility or feeling; hard-hearted.

Cold-blooded (a.) Not thoroughbred; -- said of animals, as horses, which are derived from the common stock of a country.

Coldfinch (n.) A British wagtail.

Cold-hearted (a.) Wanting passion or feeling; indifferent.

Coldish (a.) Somewhat cold; cool; chilly.

Coldly (adv.) In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; with indifference; calmly.

Coldness (n.) The state or quality of being cold.

Cold-short (a.) Brittle when cold; as, cold-short iron.

Cold-shut (a.) Closed while too cold to become thoroughly welded; -- said of a forging or casting.

Cold-shut (n.) An imperfection caused by such insufficient welding.

Cole (n.) A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B. oleracea called rape and coleseed.

Co-legatee (n.) A joint legatee.

Colegoose (n.) See Coalgoose.

Colemanite (n.) A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless or white crystals, also massive, in Southern California.

Colemouse (n.) See Coletit.

Coleopter (n.) One of the Coleoptera.

Coleoptera (n. pl.) An order of insects having the anterior pair of wings (elytra) hard and horny, and serving as coverings for the posterior pair, which are membranous, and folded transversely under the others when not in use. The mouth parts form two pairs of jaws (mandibles and maxillae) adapted for chewing. Most of the Coleoptera are known as beetles and weevils.

Coleopteral (a.) Alt. of Coleopterous

Coleopterous (a.) Having wings covered with a case or sheath; belonging to the Coleoptera.

Coleopteran (n.) One of the order of Coleoptera.

Coleopterist (n.) One versed in the study of the Coleoptera.

Coleorhiza (n.) A sheath in the embryo of grasses, inclosing the caulicle.

Coleperch (n.) A kind of small black perch.

Colera (n.) Bile; choler.

Coleridgian (a.) Pertaining to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or to his poetry or metaphysics.

Coleseed (n.) The common rape or cole.

Coleslaw (n.) A salad made of sliced cabbage.

Co-lessee (n.) A partner in a lease taken.

Co-lessor (n.) A partner in giving a lease.

Colestaff (n.) See Colstaff.

Colet () Alt. of Collet

Collet () An inferior church servant. [Obs.] See Acolyte.

Coletit (n.) Alt. of Coaltit

Coaltit (n.) A small European titmouse (Parus ater), so named from its black color; -- called also coalmouse and colemouse.

Coleus (n.) A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated for its bright-colored or variegated leaves.

Colewort (n.) A variety of cabbage in which the leaves never form a compact head.

Colewort (n.) Any white cabbage before the head has become firm.

Colfox (n.) A crafty fox.

Colic (n.) A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm, obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera.

Colic (a.) Of or pertaining to colic; affecting the bowels.

Colic (a.) Of or pertaining to the colon; as, the colic arteries.

Colical (a.) Of, pertaining to, or of the nature of, colic.

Colicky (a.) Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder.

Colicroot (n.) A bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leaves all radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike (Aletris farinosa and A. aurea). Called sometimes star grass, blackroot, blazing star, and unicorn root.

Colin (n.) The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied to other related species. See Bobwhite.

Coliseum (n.) The amphitheater of Vespasian at Rome, the largest in the world.

Colitis (n.) An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucous membrane; colonitis.

Coll (v. t.) To embrace.

Collaborateur (n.) See Collaborator.

Collaboration (n.) The act of working together; united labor.

Collaborator (n.) An associate in labor, especially in literary or scientific labor.

Collagen (n.) The chemical basis of ordinary connective tissue, as of tendons or sinews and of bone. On being boiled in water it becomes gelatin or glue.

Collagenous (a.) Containing or resembling collagen.

Collapsed (imp. & p. p.) of Collapse

Collapsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collapse

Collapse (v. i.) To fall together suddenly, as the sides of a hollow vessel; to close by falling or shrinking together; to have the sides or parts of (a thing) fall in together, or be crushed in together; as, a flue in the boiler of a steam engine sometimes collapses.

Collapse (v. i.) To fail suddenly and completely, like something hollow when subject to too much pressure; to undergo a collapse; as, Maximilian's government collapsed soon after the French army left Mexico; many financial projects collapse after attaining some success and importance.

Collapse (n.) A falling together suddenly, as of the sides of a hollow vessel.

Collapse (n.) A sudden and complete failure; an utter failure of any kind; a breakdown.

Collapse (n.) Extreme depression or sudden failing of all the vital powers, as the result of disease, injury, or nervous disturbance.

Collapsion (n.) Collapse.

Collar (n.) Something worn round the neck, whether for use, ornament, restraint, or identification; as, the collar of a coat; a lady's collar; the collar of a dog.

Collar (n.) A ring or cincture.

Collar (n.) A collar beam.

Collar (n.) The neck or line of junction between the root of a plant and its stem.

Collar (n.) An ornament worn round the neck by knights, having on it devices to designate their rank or order.

Collar (n.) A ringlike part of a mollusk in connection with esophagus.

Collar (n.) A colored ring round the neck of a bird or mammal.

Collar (n.) A ring or round flange upon, surrounding, or against an object, and used for restraining motion within given limits, or for holding something to its place, or for hiding an opening around an object; as, a collar on a shaft, used to prevent endwise motion of the shaft; a collar surrounding a stovepipe at the place where it enters a wall. The flanges of a piston and the gland of a stuffing box are sometimes called collars.

Collar (n.) An eye formed in the bight or bend of a shroud or stay to go over the masthead; also, a rope to which certain parts of rigging, as dead-eyes, are secured.

Collar (n.) A curb, or a horizontal timbering, around the mouth of a shaft.

Collared (imp. & p. p.) of Collar

Collaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collar

Collar (v. t.) To seize by the collar.

Collar (v. t.) To put a collar on.

Collar bone () The clavicle.

Collards (n. pl.) Young cabbage, used as greens; esp. a kind cultivated for that purpose; colewort.

Collared (a.) Wearing a collar.

Collared (a.) Wearing a collar; -- said of a man or beast used as a bearing when a collar is represented as worn around the neck or loins.

Collared (a.) Rolled up and bound close with a string; as, collared beef. See To collar beef, under Collar, v. t.

Collatable (a.) Capable of being collated.

Collated (imp. & p. p.) of Collate

Collating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collate

Collate (v. t.) To compare critically, as books or manuscripts, in order to note the points of agreement or disagreement.

Collate (v. t.) To gather and place in order, as the sheets of a book for binding.

Collate (v. t.) To present and institute in a benefice, when the person presenting is both the patron and the ordinary; -- followed by to.

Collate (v. t.) To bestow or confer.

Collate (v. i.) To place in a benefice, when the person placing is both the patron and the ordinary.

Collateral (a.) Coming from, being on, or directed toward, the side; as, collateral pressure.

Collateral (a.) Acting in an indirect way.

Collateral (a.) Related to, but not strictly a part of, the main thing or matter under consideration; hence, subordinate; not chief or principal; as, collateral interest; collateral issues.

Collateral (a.) Tending toward the same conclusion or result as something else; additional; as, collateral evidence.

Collateral (a.) Descending from the same stock or ancestor, but not in the same line or branch or one from the other; -- opposed to lineal.

Collateral (n.) A collateral relative.

Collateral (n.) Collateral security; that which is pledged or deposited as collateral security.

Collaterally (adv.) Side by side; by the side.

Collaterally (adv.) In an indirect or subordinate manner; indirectly.

Collaterally (adv.) In collateral relation; not lineally.

Collateralness (n.) The state of being collateral.

Collation (v. t.) The act of collating or comparing; a comparison of one copy er thing (as of a book, or manuscript) with another of a like kind; comparison, in general.

Collation (v. t.) The gathering and examination of sheets preparatory to binding.

Collation (v. t.) The act of conferring or bestowing.

Collation (v. t.) A conference.

Collation (v. t.) The presentation of a clergyman to a benefice by a bishop, who has it in his own gift.

Collation (v. t.) The act of comparing the copy of any paper with its original to ascertain its conformity.

Collation (v. t.) The report of the act made by the proper officers.

Collation (v. t.) The right which an heir has of throwing the whole heritable and movable estates of the deceased into one mass, and sharing it equally with others who are of the same degree of kindred.

Collation (v. t.) A collection of the Lives of the Fathers or other devout work read daily in monasteries.

Collation (v. t.) A light repast or luncheon; as, a cold collation; -- first applied to the refreshment on fast days that accompanied the reading of the collation in monasteries.

Collation (v. i.) To partake of a collation.

Collationer (n.) One who examines the sheets of a book that has just been printed, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc.

Collatitious (a.) Brought together; contributed; done by contributions.

Collative (a.) Passing or held by collation; -- said of livings of which the bishop and the patron are the same person.

Collator (n.) One who collates manuscripts, books, etc.

Collator (n.) One who collates to a benefice.

Collator (n.) One who confers any benefit.

Collaud (v. t.) To join in praising.

Colleague (n.) A partner or associate in some civil or ecclesiastical office or employment. It is never used of partners in trade or manufactures.

Colleague (v.t & i.) To unite or associate with another or with others.

Colleagueship (n.) Partnership in office.

Collected (imp. & p. p.) of Collect

Collecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collect

Collect (v. t.) To gather into one body or place; to assemble or bring together; to obtain by gathering.

Collect (v. t.) To demand and obtain payment of, as an account, or other indebtedness; as, to collect taxes.

Collect (v. t.) To infer from observed facts; to conclude from premises.

Collect (v. i.) To assemble together; as, the people collected in a crowd; to accumulate; as, snow collects in banks.

Collect (v. i.) To infer; to conclude.

Collect (v. t.) A short, comprehensive prayer, adapted to a particular day, occasion, or condition, and forming part of a liturgy.

Collectanea (v. t.) Passages selected from various authors, usually for purposes of instruction; miscellany; anthology.

Collected (a.) Gathered together.

Collected (a.) Self-possessed; calm; composed.

Collectedly (adv.) Composedly; coolly.

Collectedness (n.) A collected state of the mind; self-possession.

Collectible (a.) Capable of being collected.

Collection (n.) The act or process of collecting or of gathering; as, the collection of specimens.

Collection (n.) That which is collected

Collection (n.) A gathering or assemblage of objects or of persons.

Collection (n.) A gathering of money for charitable or other purposes, as by passing a contribution box for freewill offerings.

Collection (n.) That which is obtained in payment of demands.

Collection (n.) An accumulation of any substance.

Collection (n.) The act of inferring or concluding from premises or observed facts; also, that which is inferred.

Collection (n.) The jurisdiction of a collector of excise.

Collectional (a.) Of or pertaining to collecting.

Collective (a.) Formed by gathering or collecting; gathered into a mass, sum, or body; congregated or aggregated; as, the collective body of a nation.

Collective (a.) Deducing consequences; reasoning; inferring.

Collective (a.) Expressing a collection or aggregate of individuals, by a singular form; as, a collective name or noun, like assembly, army, jury, etc.

Collective (a.) Tending to collect; forming a collection.

Collective (a.) Having plurality of origin or authority; as, in diplomacy, a note signed by the representatives of several governments is called a collective note.

Collective (n.) A collective noun or name.

Collectively (adv.) In a mass, or body; in a collected state; in the aggregate; unitedly.

Collectiveness (n.) A state of union; mass.

Collectivism (n.) The doctrine that land and capital should be owned by society collectively or as a whole; communism.

Collectivist (n.) An advocate of collectivism.

Collectivist (a.) Relating to, or characteristic of, collectivism.

Collector (n.) One who collects things which are separate; esp., one who makes a business or practice of collecting works of art, objects in natural history, etc.; as, a collector of coins.

Collector (n.) A compiler of books; one who collects scattered passages and puts them together in one book.

Collector (n.) An officer appointed and commissioned to collect and receive customs, duties, taxes, or toll.

Collector (n.) One authorized to collect debts.

Collector (n.) A bachelor of arts in Oxford, formerly appointed to superintend some scholastic proceedings in Lent.

Collectorate (n.) The district of a collector of customs; a collectorship.

Collectorship (n.) The office of a collector of customs or of taxes.

Collegatary (n.) A joint legatee.

College (n.) A collection, body, or society of persons engaged in common pursuits, or having common duties and interests, and sometimes, by charter, peculiar rights and privileges; as, a college of heralds; a college of electors; a college of bishops.

College (n.) A society of scholars or friends of learning, incorporated for study or instruction, esp. in the higher branches of knowledge; as, the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge Universities, and many American colleges.

College (n.) A building, or number of buildings, used by a college.

College (n.) Fig.: A community.

Collegial (n.) Collegiate.

Collegian (n.) A member of a college, particularly of a literary institution so called; a student in a college.

Collegiate (a.) Of or pertaining to a college; as, collegiate studies; a collegiate society.

Collegiate (n.) A member of a college.

Collembola (n. pl.) The division of Thysanura which includes Podura, and allied forms.

Collenchyma (n.) A tissue of vegetable cells which are thickend at the angles and (usually) elongated.

Collet (n.) A small collar or neckband.

Collet (n.) A small metal ring; a small collar fastened on an arbor; as, the collet on the balance arbor of a watch; a small socket on a stem, for holding a drill.

Collet (n.) The part of a ring containing the bezel in which the stone is set.

Collet (n.) The flat table at the base of a brilliant. See Illust. of Brilliant.

Colleterial (a.) Of or pertaining to the colleterium of insects.

Colleterium (n.) An organ of female insects, containing a cement to unite the ejected ova.

Colletic (a.) Agglutinant.

Colletic (n.) An agglutinant.

Colley (n.) See Collie.

Collide (v. i.) To strike or dash against each other; to come into collision; to clash; as, the vessels collided; their interests collided.

Collide (v. t.) To strike or dash against.

Collidine (n.) One of a class of organic bases, C8H11N, usually pungent oily liquids, belonging to the pyridine series, and obtained from bone oil, coal tar, naphtha, and certain alkaloids.

Collie (n.) The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-haired and smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayed especially in caring for flocks.

Collied (p. & a.) Darkened. See Colly, v. t.

Collier (n.) One engaged in the business of digging mineral coal or making charcoal, or in transporting or dealing in coal.

Collier (n.) A vessel employed in the coal trade.

Collieries (pl. ) of Colliery

Colliery (n.) The place where coal is dug; a coal mine, and the buildings, etc., belonging to it.

Colliery (n.) The coal trade.

Colliflower (n.) See Cauliflower.

Colligated (imp. & p. p.) of Colligate

Colligating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Colligate

Colligate (v. t.) To tie or bind together.

Colligate (v. t.) To bring together by colligation; to sum up in a single proposition.

Colligate (a.) Bound together.

Colligation (n.) A binding together.

Colligation (n.) That process by which a number of isolated facts are brought under one conception, or summed up in a general proposition, as when Kepler discovered that the various observed positions of the planet Mars were points in an ellipse.

Collimated (imp. & p. p.) of Collimate

Collimating (p. p. & vb. n.) of Collimate

Collimate (v. t.) To render parallel to a certain line or direction; to bring into the same line, as the axes of telescopes, etc.; to render parallel, as rays of light.

Collimation (n.) The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of the sights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into its proper position relative to the other parts of the instrument.

Collimator (n.) A telescope arranged and used to determine errors of collimation, both vertical and horizontal.

Collimator (n.) A tube having a convex lens at one end and at the other a small opening or slit which is at the principal focus of the lens, used for producing a beam of parallel rays; also, a lens so used.

Collin (n.) A very pure form of gelatin.

Colline (n.) A small hill or mount.

Collineation (n.) The act of aiming at, or directing in a line with, a fixed object.

Colling (v. t.) An embrace; dalliance.

Collingly (adv.) With embraces.

Collingual (a.) Having, or pertaining to, the same language.

Colliquable (a.) Liable to melt, grow soft, or become fluid.

Colliquament (n.) The first rudiments of an embryo in generation.

Colliquated (imp. & p. p.) of Colliquate

Colliquating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Colliquate

Colliquate (v. t. & i.) To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; to melt.

Colliquation (n.) A melting together; the act of melting; fusion.

Colliquation (n.) A processive wasting or melting away of the solid parts of the animal system with copious excretions of liquids by one or more passages.

Colliquative (a.) Causing rapid waste or exhaustion; melting; as, colliquative sweats.

Colliquefaction (n.) A melting together; the reduction of different bodies into one mass by fusion.

Collish (n.) A tool to polish the edge of a sole.

Collision (n.) The act of striking together; a striking together, as of two hard bodies; a violent meeting, as of railroad trains; a clashing.

Collision (n.) A state of opposition; antagonism; interference.

Collisive (a.) Colliding; clashing.

Collitigant (a.) Disputing or wrangling.

Collitigant (n.) One who litigates or wrangles.

Collocate (a.) Set; placed.

Collocated (imp. & p. p.) of Collocate

Collocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collocate

Collocate (v. t.) To set or place; to set; to station.

Collocation (n.) The act of placing; the state of being placed with something else; disposition in place; arrangement.

Collocution (n.) A speaking or conversing together; conference; mutual discourse.

Collocutor (n.) One of the speakers in a dialogue.

Collodion (n.) A solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ether containing a varying proportion of alcohol. It is strongly adhesive, and is used by surgeons as a coating for wounds; but its chief application is as a vehicle for the sensitive film in photography.

Collodionize (v. t.) To prepare or treat with collodion.

Collodiotype (n.) A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype or ambrotype.

Collodium (n.) See Collodion.

Collogue (v. i.) To talk or confer secretly and confidentially; to converse, especially with evil intentions; to plot mischief.

Colloid (a.) Resembling glue or jelly; characterized by a jellylike appearance; gelatinous; as, colloid tumors.

Colloid (n.) A substance (as albumin, gum, gelatin, etc.) which is of a gelatinous rather than a crystalline nature, and which diffuses itself through animal membranes or vegetable parchment more slowly than crystalloids do; -- opposed to crystalloid.

Colloid (n.) A gelatinous substance found in colloid degeneration and colloid cancer.

Colloidal (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, colloids.

Colloidality (n.) The state or quality of being colloidal.

Collop (n.) A small slice of meat; a piece of flesh.

Collop (n.) A part or piece of anything; a portion.

Colloped (a.) Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops.

Collophore (n.) A suckerlike organ at the base of the abdomen of insects belonging to the Collembola.

Collophore (n.) An adhesive marginal organ of the Lucernariae.

Colloquial (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common and familiar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal; as, colloquial intercourse; colloquial phrases; a colloquial style.

Colloquialism (n.) A colloquial expression, not employed in formal discourse or writing.

Colloquialize (v. t.) To make colloquial and familiar; as, to colloquialize one's style of writing.

Colloquist (n.) A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue.

Colloquies (pl. ) of Colloquy

Colloquy (n.) Mutual discourse of two or more persons; conference; conversation.

Colloquy (n.) In some American colleges, a part in exhibitions, assigned for a certain scholarship rank; a designation of rank in collegiate scholarship.

Collow (n.) Soot; smut. See 1st Colly.

Colluctancy (n.) A struggling to resist; a striving against; resistance; opposition of nature.

Colluctation (n.) A struggling; a contention.

Colluded (imp. & p. p.) of Collude

Colluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collude

Collude (v. i.) To have secretly a joint part or share in an action; to play into each other's hands; to conspire; to act in concert.

Colluder (n.) One who conspires in a fraud.

Colla (pl. ) of Collum

Collum (n.) A neck or cervix.

Collum (n.) Same as Collar.

Collusion (n.) A secret agreement and cooperation for a fraudulent or deceitful purpose; a playing into each other's hands; deceit; fraud; cunning.

Collusion (n.) An agreement between two or more persons to defraud a person of his rights, by the forms of law, or to obtain an object forbidden by law.

Collusive (a.) Characterized by collusion; done or planned in collusion.

Collusive (a.) Acting in collusion.

Collusory (a.) Collusive.

Collutory (n.) A medicated wash for the mouth.

Colly (n.) The black grime or soot of coal.

Collied (imp. & p. p.) of Colly

Collying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Colly

Colly (v. t.) To render black or dark, as of with coal smut; to begrime.

Colly (n.) A kind of dog. See Collie.

Collybist (n.) A money changer.

Collyriums (pl. ) of Collyrium

Collyria (pl. ) of Collyrium

Collyrium (n.) An application to the eye, usually an eyewater.

Colocolo (n.) A South American wild cat (Felis colocolo), of the size of the ocelot.

Colocynth (n.) The light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber (Citrullus, / Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to the watermelon; coloquintida. It comes in white balls, is intensely bitter, and a powerful cathartic. Called also bitter apple, bitter cucumber, bitter gourd.

Colocynthin (n.) The active medicinal principle of colocynth; a bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside.

Cologne (n.) A perfumed liquid, composed of alcohol and certain aromatic oils, used in the toilet; -- called also cologne water and eau de cologne.

Cologne earth () An earth of a deep brown color, containing more vegetable than mineral matter; an earthy variety of lignite, or brown coal.

Colombier (n.) A large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper.

Colombin (n.) See Calumbin.

Colombo (n.) See Calumba.

Colon (n.) That part of the large intestines which extends from the caecum to the rectum. [See Illust of Digestion.]

Colon (n.) A point or character, formed thus [:], used to separate parts of a sentence that are complete in themselves and nearly independent, often taking the place of a conjunction.

Colonel (n.) The chief officer of a regiment; an officer ranking next above a lieutenant colonel and next below a brigadier general.

Colonelcy (n.) The office, rank, or commission of a colonel.

Colonelship (n.) Colonelcy.

Coloner (n.) A colonist.

Colonial (a.) Of or pertaining to a colony; as, colonial rights, traffic, wars.

Colonical (a.) Of or pertaining to husbandmen.

Colonist (n.) A member or inhabitant of a colony.

Colonitis (n.) See Colitis.

Colonization (n.) The act of colonizing, or the state of being colonized; the formation of a colony or colonies.

Colonizationist (n.) A friend to colonization, esp. (U. S. Hist) to the colonization of Africa by emigrants from the colored population of the United States.

Colonized (imp. & p. p.) of Colonize

Colonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Colonize

Colonize (v. t.) To plant or establish a colony or colonies in; to people with colonists; to migrate to and settle in.

Colonize (v. i.) To remove to, and settle in, a distant country; to make a colony.

Colonizer (n.) One who promotes or establishes a colony; a colonist.

Colonnade (n.) A series or range of columns placed at regular intervals with all the adjuncts, as entablature, stylobate, roof, etc.

Colonies (pl. ) of Colony

Colony (n.) A company of people transplanted from their mother country to a remote province or country, and remaining subject to the jurisdiction of the parent state; as, the British colonies in America.

Colony (n.) The district or country colonized; a settlement.

Colony (n.) A company of persons from the same country sojourning in a foreign city or land; as, the American colony in Paris.

Colony (n.) A number of animals or plants living or growing together, beyond their usual range.

Colophany (n.) See Colophony.

Colophene (n.) A colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation of colophony. It is regarded as a polymeric form of terebenthene. Called also diterebene.

Colophon (n.) An inscription, monogram, or cipher, containing the place and date of publication, printer's name, etc., formerly placed on the last page of a book.

Colophonite (n.) A coarsely granular variety of garnet.

Colophony (n.) Rosin.

Coloquintida (n.) See Colocynth.

Color (n.) A property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors; sad colors, etc.

Color (n.) Any hue distinguished from white or black.

Color (n.) The hue or color characteristic of good health and spirits; ruddy complexion.

Color (n.) That which is used to give color; a paint; a pigment; as, oil colors or water colors.

Color (n.) That which covers or hides the real character of anything; semblance; excuse; disguise; appearance.

Color (n.) Shade or variety of character; kind; species.

Color (n.) A distinguishing badge, as a flag or similar symbol (usually in the plural); as, the colors or color of a ship or regiment; the colors of a race horse (that is, of the cap and jacket worn by the jockey).

Color (n.) An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to the plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially, thus removing the cause from the jury to the court.

Colored (imp. & p. p.) of Color

Coloring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Color

Color (v. t.) To change or alter the hue or tint of, by dyeing, staining, painting, etc.; to dye; to tinge; to paint; to stain.

Color (v. t.) To change or alter, as if by dyeing or painting; to give a false appearance to; usually, to give a specious appearance to; to cause to appear attractive; to make plausible; to palliate or excuse; as, the facts were colored by his prejudices.

Color (v. t.) To hide.

Color (v. i.) To acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to blush.

Colorable (a.) Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice.

Colorado beetle () A yellowish beetle (Doryphora decemlineata), with ten longitudinal, black, dorsal stripes. It has migrated eastwards from its original habitat in Colorado, and is very destructive to the potato plant; -- called also potato beetle and potato bug. See Potato beetle.

Colorado group () A subdivision of the cretaceous formation of western North America, especially developed in Colorado and the upper Missouri region.

Coloradoite (n.) Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found in Colorado.

Colorate (a.) Colored.

Coloration (n.) The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored.

Colorature (n.) Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, or rapid passages.

Color-blind (a.) Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, under Color, n.

Colored (a.) Having color; tinged; dyed; painted; stained.

Colored (a.) Specious; plausible; adorned so as to appear well; as, a highly colored description.

Colored (a.) Of some other color than black or white.

Colored (a.) Of some other color than white; specifically applied to negroes or persons having negro blood; as, a colored man; the colored people.

Colored (a.) Of some other color than green.

Colorific (a.) Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies.

Colorimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything, especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid.

Coloring (n.) The act of applying color to; also, that which produces color.

Coloring (n.) Change of appearance as by addition of color; appearance; show; disguise; misrepresentation.

Colorist (n.) One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; one to whom coloring is of prime importance.

Colorless (a.) Without color; not distinguished by any hue; transparent; as, colorless water.

Colorless (a.) Free from any manifestation of partial or peculiar sentiment or feeling; not disclosing likes, dislikes, prejudice, etc.; as, colorless music; a colorless style; definitions should be colorless.

Colormen (pl. ) of Colorman

Colorman (n.) A vender of paints, etc.

Color sergeant () See under Sergeant.

Colossal (a.) Of enormous size; gigantic; huge; as, a colossal statue.

Colossal (a.) Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic.

Colossean (a.) Colossal.

Colosseum (n.) The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome.

Colossi (pl. ) of Colossus

Colossuses (pl. ) of Colossus

Colossus (n.) A statue of gigantic size. The name was especially applied to certain famous statues in antiquity, as the Colossus of Nero in Rome, the Colossus of Apollo at Rhodes.

Colossus (n.) Any man or beast of gigantic size.

Colostrum (n.) The first milk secreted after delivery; biestings.

Colostrum (n.) A mixture of turpentine and the yolk of an egg, formerly used as an emulsion.

Colotomy (n.) An operation for opening the colon

Colour (n.) See Color.

Colp (n.) See Collop.

Colportage (n.) The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., by colporteurs.

Colporter (n.) Same as Colporteur.

Colporteur (n.) A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling and distributing religious tracts and books.

Colstaff (n.) A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons on their shoulders.

Colt (n.) The young of the equine genus or horse kind of animals; -- sometimes distinctively applied to the male, filly being the female. Cf. Foal.

Colt (n.) A young, foolish fellow.

Colt (n.) A short knotted rope formerly used as an instrument of punishment in the navy.

Colt (v. i.) To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously or wantonly.

Colt (v. t.) To horse; to get with young.

Colt (v. t.) To befool.

Colter (n.) A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard.

Coltish (a.) Like a colt; wanton; frisky.

Coltsfoot (n.) A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves and rootstock are sometimes employed in medicine.

Colt's tooth () See under Colt.

Coluber (n.) A genus of harmless serpents.

Colubrine (a.) like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.

Colubrine (a.) Like a snake; cunning; crafty.

Colugo (n.) A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), having along the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelike membrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like the flying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur.

Columba (n.) See Calumba.

Columbae (n. pl.) An order of birds, including the pigeons.

Columbaria (pl. ) of Columbarium

Columbarium (n.) A dovecote or pigeon house.

Columbarium (n.) A sepulchral chamber with niches for holding cinerary urns.

Columbaries (pl. ) of Columbary

Columbary (n.) A dovecote; a pigeon house.

Columbate (n.) A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.

Columbatz fly () See Buffalo fly, under Buffalo.

Columbella (n.) A genus of univalve shells, abundant in tropical seas. Some species, as Columbella mercatoria, were formerly used as shell money.

Columbia (n.) America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given in honor of Columbus, the discoverer.

Columbiad (n.) A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed for throwing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high angles of elevation.

Columbian (a.) Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America.

Columbic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic.

Columbic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the columbo root.

Columbier (n.) See Colombier.

Columbiferous (a.) Producing or containing columbium.

Columbin (n.) A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin.

Columbine (a.) Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored.

Columbine (n.) A plant of several species of the genus Aquilegia; as, A. vulgaris, or the common garden columbine; A. Canadensis, the wild red columbine of North America.

Columbine (n.) The mistress or sweetheart of Harlequin in pantomimes.

Columbite (n.) A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and high specific specific gravity. It is a niobate (or columbate) of iron and manganese, containing tantalate of iron; -- first found in New England.

Columbium (n.) A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a variety of the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably at Haddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly called niobium.

Columbo (n.) See Calumba.

Columella (n.) An axis to which a carpel of a compound pistil may be attached, as in the case of the geranium; or which is left when a pod opens.

Columella (n.) A columnlike axis in the capsules of mosses.

Columella (n.) A term applied to various columnlike parts; as, the columella, or epipterygoid bone, in the skull of many lizards; the columella of the ear, the bony or cartilaginous rod connecting the tympanic membrane with the internal ear.

Columella (n.) The upright pillar in the axis of most univalve shells.

Columella (n.) The central pillar or axis of the calicles of certain corals.

Columelliform (a.) Shaped like a little column, or columella.

Column (n.) A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.

Column (n.) Anything resembling, in form or position, a column in architecture; an upright body or mass; a shaft or obelisk; as, a column of air, of water, of mercury, etc.; the Column Vendome; the spinal column.

Column (n.) A body of troops formed in ranks, one behind the other; -- contradistinguished from line. Compare Ploy, and Deploy.

Column (n.) A small army.

Column (n.) A number of ships so arranged as to follow one another in single or double file or in squadrons; -- in distinction from line, where they are side by side.

Column (n.) A perpendicular set of lines, not extending across the page, and separated from other matter by a rule or blank space; as, a column in a newspaper.

Column (n.) A perpendicular line of figures.

Column (n.) The body formed by the union of the stamens in the Mallow family, or of the stamens and pistil in the orchids.

Columnar (a.) Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; like the shaft of a column.

Columnarity (n.) The state or quality of being columnar.

Columnated (a.) Having columns; as, columnated temples.

Columned (a.) Having columns.

Columniation (n.) The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure.

Colures (pl. ) of Colure

Colure (n.) One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the poles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctial points, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the other intersects the equator at the distance of 90 from the former, and is called the solstitial colure.

Colies (pl. ) of Coly

Coly (n.) Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabit Africa.

Colza (n.) A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for its seeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricating purposes; summer rape.

Com- () A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with, together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com- before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col- before l, cor- before r, and con- before any consonant except b, h, l, m, p, r, and w. Before a vowel com- becomes co-; also before h, w, and sometimes before other consonants.

Coma (n.) A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or impossible to rouse a person. See Carus.

Coma (n.) The envelope of a comet; a nebulous covering, which surrounds the nucleus or body of a comet.

Coma (n.) A tuft or bunch, -- as the assemblage of branches forming the head of a tree; or a cluster of bracts when empty and terminating the inflorescence of a plant; or a tuft of long hairs on certain seeds.

Comanches (n. pl.) A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family of Indians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the United States; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering and cruelty.

Comart (n.) A covenant.

Comate (a.) Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.

Co-mate (n.) A companion.

Comatose (a.) Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as, comatose sleep; comatose fever.

Comatous (a.) Comatose.

Comatula (n.) A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera. When young they are fixed by a stem. When adult they become detached and cling to seaweeds, etc., by their dorsal cirri; -- called also feather stars.

Comatulid (n.) Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera.

Comb (n.) An instrument with teeth, for straightening, cleansing, and adjusting the hair, or for keeping it in place.

Comb (n.) An instrument for currying hairy animals, or cleansing and smoothing their coats; a currycomb.

Comb (n.) A toothed instrument used for separating and cleansing wool, flax, hair, etc.

Comb (n.) The serrated vibratory doffing knife of a carding machine.

Comb (n.) A former, commonly cone-shaped, used in hat manufacturing for hardening the soft fiber into a bat.

Comb (n.) A tool with teeth, used for chasing screws on work in a lathe; a chaser.

Comb (n.) The notched scale of a wire micrometer.

Comb (n.) The collector of an electrical machine, usually resembling a comb.

Comb (n.) The naked fleshy crest or caruncle on the upper part of the bill or hood of a cock or other bird. It is usually red.

Comb (n.) One of a pair of peculiar organs on the base of the abdomen of scorpions.

Comb (n.) The curling crest of a wave.

Comb (n.) The waxen framework forming the walls of the cells in which bees store their honey, eggs, etc.; honeycomb.

Comb (n.) The thumbpiece of the hammer of a gunlock, by which it may be cocked.

Combed (imp. & p. p.) of Comb

Combing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comb

Comb (v. t.) To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smooth and straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. See under Combing.

Comb (n.) To roll over, as the top or crest of a wave; to break with a white foam, as waves.

Comb (n.) Alt. of Combe

Combe (n.) That unwatered portion of a valley which forms its continuation beyond and above the most elevated spring that issues into it.

Comb (n.) A dry measure. See Coomb.

Combated (imp. & p. p.) of Combat

Combating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Combat

Combat (v. i.) To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight.

Combat (v. t.) To fight with; to oppose by force, argument, etc.; to contend against; to resist.

Combat (n.) A fight; a contest of violence; a struggle for supremacy.

Combat (n.) An engagement of no great magnitude; or one in which the parties engaged are not armies.

Combatable (a.) Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatable foes, evils, or arguments.

Combatant (a.) Contending; disposed to contend.

Combatant (n.) One who engages in combat.

Combater (n.) One who combats.

Combative (a.) Disposed to engage in combat; pugnacious.

Combativeness (n.) The quality of being combative; propensity to contend or to quarrel.

Combativeness (n.) A cranial development supposed to indicate a combative disposition.

Combattant (a.) In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face to face, each rampant.

Combbroach (n.) A tooth of a wool comb.

Combe (n.) See Comb.

Comber (n.) One who combs; one whose occupation it is to comb wool, flax, etc. Also, a machine for combing wool, flax, etc.

Comber (n.) A long, curling wave.

Comber (v. t.) To cumber.

Comber (n.) Encumbrance.

Comber (n.) The cabrilla. Also, a name applied to a species of wrasse.

Combinable (a.) Capable of combining; consistent with.

Combinate (a.) United; joined; betrothed.

Combination (n.) The act or process of combining or uniting persons and things.

Combination (n.) The result of combining or uniting; union of persons or things; esp. a union or alliance of persons or states to effect some purpose; -- usually in a bad sense.

Combination (n.) The act or process of uniting by chemical affinity, by which substances unite with each other in definite proportions by weight to form distinct compounds.

Combination (n.) The different arrangements of a number of objects, as letters, into groups.

Combined (imp. & p. p.) of Combine

Combining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Combine

Combine (v. t.) To unite or join; to link closely together; to bring into harmonious union; to cause or unite so as to form a homogeneous substance, as by chemical union.

Combine (v. t.) To bind; to hold by a moral tie.

Combine (v. i.) To form a union; to agree; to coalesce; to confederate.

Combine (v. i.) To unite by affinity or natural attraction; as, two substances, which will not combine of themselves, may be made to combine by the intervention of a third.

Combine (v. i.) In the game of casino, to play a card which will take two or more cards whose aggregate number of pips equals those of the card played.

Combined (a.) United closely; confederated; chemically united.

Combinedly (adv. In combination or cooperation) ; jointly.

Combiner (n.) One who, or that which, combines.

Combing (n.) The act or process of using a comb or a number of combs; as, the combing of one's hair; the combing of wool.

Combing (n.) That which is caught or collected with a comb, as loose, tangled hair.

Combing (n.) Hair arranged to be worn on the head.

Combing (n.) See Coamings.

Combless (a.) Without a comb or crest; as, a combless cock.

Comboloio (n.) A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads.

Comb-shaped (a.) Pectinate.

Combust (a.) Burnt; consumed.

Combust (a.) So near the sun as to be obscured or eclipsed by his light, as the moon or planets when not more than eight degrees and a half from the sun.

Combustibility (n.) The quality of being combustible.

Combustible (a.) Capable of taking fire and burning; apt to catch fire; inflammable.

Combustible (a.) Easily kindled or excited; quick; fiery; irascible.

Combustible (n.) A substance that may be set on fire, or which is liable to take fire and burn.

Combustibleness (n.) Combustibility.

Combustion (n.) The state of burning.

Combustion (n.) The combination of a combustible with a supporter of combustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat.

Combustion (n.) Violent agitation; confusion; tumult.

Combustious (a.) Inflammable.

Came (imp.) of Come

Come (p. p.) of Come

Coming (p. pr & vb. n.) of Come

Come (n.) To move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or some place or person indicated; -- opposed to go.

Come (n.) To complete a movement toward a place; to arrive.

Come (n.) To approach or arrive, as if by a journey or from a distance.

Come (n.) To approach or arrive, as the result of a cause, or of the act of another.

Come (n.) To arrive in sight; to be manifest; to appear.

Come (n.) To get to be, as the result of change or progress; -- with a predicate; as, to come untied.

Come (v. t.) To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any tricks here.

Come (n.) Coming.

Co-meddle (v. t.) To mix; to mingle, to temper.

Comedian (n.) An actor or player in comedy.

Comedian (n.) A writer of comedy.

Comedienne (n.) A women who plays in comedy.

Comedietta (n.) A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.

Comedones (pl. ) of Comedo

Comedo (n.) A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained oily secretion, with a black head (dirt).

Comedown (n.) A downfall; an humiliation.

Comedies (pl. ) of Comedy

Comedy (n.) A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play in which mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; -- opposed to tragedy.

Comelily (adv.) In a suitable or becoming manner.

Comeliness (n.) The quality or state of being comely.

Comely (superl.) Pleasing or agreeable to the sight; well-proportioned; good-looking; handsome.

Comely (superl.) Suitable or becoming; proper; agreeable.

Comely (adv.) In a becoming manner.

Come-outer (n.) One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or other organization; a radical reformer.

Comer (n.) One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is present.

Comes (n.) The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue.

Comessation (n.) A reveling; a rioting.

Comestible (a.) Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.

Comestible (n.) Something suitable to be eaten; -- commonly in the plural.

Comet (n.) A member of the solar system which usually moves in an elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion, and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. A comet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, or coma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequently wanting. See Illustration in Appendix.

Cometarium (n.) An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a comet round the sun.

Cometary (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet.

Comet-finder (n.) Alt. of Comet- seeker

Comet- seeker (n.) A telescope of low power, having a large field of view, used for finding comets.

Cometic (a.) Relating to a comet.

Cometographer (n.) One who describes or writes about comets.

Cometography (n.) A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets.

Cometology (n.) The department of astronomy relating to comets.

Comfit (n.) A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved with sugar and dried; a confection.

Comfit (v. t.) To preserve dry with sugar.

Comfiture (n.) See Comfit, n.

Comforted (imp. & p. p.) of Comfort

Comforting. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comfort

Comfort (v. t.) To make strong; to invigorate; to fortify; to corroborate.

Comfort (v. t.) To assist or help; to aid.

Comfort (v. t.) To impart strength and hope to; to encourage; to relieve; to console; to cheer.

Comfort (n.) Assistance; relief; support.

Comfort (n.) Encouragement; solace; consolation in trouble; also, that which affords consolation.

Comfort (n.) A state of quiet enjoyment; freedom from pain, want, or anxiety; also, whatever contributes to such a condition.

Comfort (n.) A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable.

Comfort (n.) Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to give aid and comfort to the enemy.

Comfortable (a.) Strong; vigorous; valiant.

Comfortable (a.) Serviceable; helpful.

Comfortable (a.) Affording or imparting comfort or consolation; able to comfort; cheering; as, a comfortable hope.

Comfortable (a.) In a condition of comfort; having comforts; not suffering or anxious; hence, contented; cheerful; as, to lead a comfortable life.

Comfortable (a.) Free, or comparatively free, from pain or distress; -- used of a sick person.

Comfortable (n.) A stuffed or quilted coverlet for a bed; a comforter; a comfort.

Comfortableness (n.) State of being comfortable.

Comfortably (adv.) In a comfortable or comforting manner.

Comforter (n.) One who administers comfort or consolation.

Comforter (n.) The Holy Spirit, -- referring to his office of comforting believers.

Comforter (n.) A knit woolen tippet, long and narrow.

Comforter (n.) A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable.

Comfortless (a.) Without comfort or comforts; in want or distress; cheerless.

Comfortment (n.) Act or process of administering comfort.

Comfortress (n.) A woman who comforts.

Comfrey (n.) A rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of the genus Symphytum.

Comic (a.) Relating to comedy, as distinct from tragedy.

Comic (a.) Causing mirth; ludicrous.

Comic (n.) A comedian.

Comical (a.) Relating to comedy.

Comical (a.) Exciting mirth; droll; laughable; as, a comical story.

Comicalities (pl. ) of Comicality

Comicality (n.) The quality of being comical; something comical.

Comicry (n.) The power of exciting mirth; comicalness.

Coming (a.) Approaching; of the future, especially the near future; the next; as, the coming week or year; the coming exhibition.

Coming (a.) Ready to come; complaisant; fond.

Coming (n.) Approach; advent; manifestation; as, the coming of the train.

Coming (n.) Specifically: The Second Advent of Christ.

Comitia (n. pl.) A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers or passing laws.

Comitial (a.) Relating to the comitia, or popular assemblies of the Romans for electing officers and passing laws.

Comities (pl. ) of Comity

Comity (n.) Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comity of States.

Comma (n.) A character or point [,] marking the smallest divisions of a sentence, written or printed.

Comma (n.) A small interval (the difference between a major and minor half step), seldom used except by tuners.

Commanded (imp. & p. p.) of Command

Commanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Command

Command (v. t.) To order with authority; to lay injunction upon; to direct; to bid; to charge.

Command (v. t.) To exercise direct authority over; to have control of; to have at one's disposal; to lead.

Command (v. t.) To have within a sphere of control, influence, access, or vision; to dominate by position; to guard; to overlook.

Command (v. t.) To have power or influence of the nature of authority over; to obtain as if by ordering; to receive as a due; to challenge; to claim; as, justice commands the respect and affections of the people; the best goods command the best price.

Command (v. t.) To direct to come; to bestow.

Command (v. i.) To have or to exercise direct authority; to govern; to sway; to influence; to give an order or orders.

Command (v. i.) To have a view, as from a superior position.

Command (n.) An authoritative order requiring obedience; a mandate; an injunction.

Command (n.) The possession or exercise of authority.

Command (n.) Authority; power or right of control; leadership; as, the forces under his command.

Command (n.) Power to dominate, command, or overlook by means of position; scope of vision; survey.

Command (n.) Control; power over something; sway; influence; as, to have command over one's temper or voice; the fort has command of the bridge.

Command (n.) A body of troops, or any naval or military force or post, or the whole territory under the authority or control of a particular officer.

Commandable (a.) Capable of being commanded.

Commandant (n.) A commander; the commanding officer of a place, or of a body of men; as, the commandant of a navy-yard.

Commandatory (a.) Mandatory; as, commandatory authority.

Commander (n.) A chief; one who has supreme authority; a leader; the chief officer of an army, or of any division of it.

Commander (n.) An officer who ranks next below a captain, -- ranking with a lieutenant colonel in the army.

Commander (n.) The chief officer of a commandery.

Commander (n.) A heavy beetle or wooden mallet, used in paving, in sail lofts, etc.

Commandership (n.) The office of a commander.

Commanderies (pl. ) of Commandery

Commandery (n.) The office or rank of a commander.

Commandery (n.) A district or a manor with lands and tenements appertaining thereto, under the control of a member of an order of knights who was called a commander; -- called also a preceptory.

Commandery (n.) An assembly or lodge of Knights Templars (so called) among the Freemasons.

Commandery (n.) A district under the administration of a military commander or governor.

Commanding (a.) Exercising authority; actually in command; as, a commanding officer.

Commanding (a.) Fitted to impress or control; as, a commanding look or presence.

Commanding (a.) Exalted; overlooking; having superior strategic advantages; as, a commanding position.

Commandingly (adv.) In a commanding manner.

Commandment (n.) An order or injunction given by authority; a command; a charge; a precept; a mandate.

Commandment (n.) One of the ten laws or precepts given by God to the Israelites at Mount Sinai.

Commandment (n.) The act of commanding; exercise of authority.

Commandment (n.) The offense of commanding or inducing another to violate the law.

Commandress (n.) A woman invested with authority to command.

Commandry (n.) See Commandery.

Commark (n.) The frontier of a country; confines.

Commaterial (a.) Consisting of the same material.

Commatic (a.) Having short clauses or sentences; brief; concise.

Commatism (n.) Conciseness in writing.

Commeasurable (a.) Having the same measure; commensurate; proportional.

Commeasure (v. t.) To be commensurate with; to equal.

Commemorable (a.) Worthy to be commemorated.

Commemorated (imp. & p. p.) of Commemorate

Commemorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commemorate

Commemorate (v. t.) To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; to celebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event, by some act of respect or affection, intended to preserve the remembrance of the person or event; as, to commemorate the sufferings and dying love of our Savior by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; to commemorate the Declaration of Independence by the observance of the Fourth of July.

Commemoration (n.) The act of commemorating; an observance or celebration designed to honor the memory of some person or event.

Commemoration (n.) Whatever serves the purpose of commemorating; a memorial.

Commemorative (a.) Tending or intended to commemorate.

Commemorator (n.) One who commemorates.

Commemoratory (a.) Serving to commemorate; commemorative.

Commenced (imp. & p. p.) of Commence

Commencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commence

Commence (v. i.) To have a beginning or origin; to originate; to start; to begin.

Commence (v. i.) To begin to be, or to act as.

Commence (v. i.) To take a degree at a university.

Commence (v. t.) To enter upon; to begin; to perform the first act of.

Commencement (n.) The first existence of anything; act or fact of commencing; rise; origin; beginning; start.

Commencement (n.) The day when degrees are conferred by colleges and universities upon students and others.

Commended (imp. & p. p.) of Commend

Commending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commend

Commend (v. t.) To commit, intrust, or give in charge for care or preservation.

Commend (v. t.) To recommend as worthy of confidence or regard; to present as worthy of notice or favorable attention.

Commend (v. t.) To mention with approbation; to praise; as, to commend a person or an act.

Commend (v. t.) To mention by way of courtesy, implying remembrance and good will.

Commend (n.) Commendation; praise.

Commend (n.) Compliments; greetings.

Commendable (a.) Worthy of being commended or praised; laudable; praiseworthy.

Commendam (n.) A vacant living or benefice commended to a cleric (usually a bishop) who enjoyed the revenue until a pastor was provided. A living so held was said to be held in commendam. The practice was abolished by law in 1836.

Commendatary (n.) One who holds a living in commendam.

Commendation (n.) The act of commending; praise; favorable representation in words; recommendation.

Commendation (n.) That which is the ground of approbation or praise.

Commendation (n.) A message of affection or respect; compliments; greeting.

Commendator (n.) One who holds a benefice in commendam; a commendatary.

Commendatory (a.) Serving to commend; containing praise or commendation; commending; praising.

Commendatory (a.) Holding a benefice in commendam; as, a commendatory bishop.

Commendatory (n.) A commendation; eulogy.

Commender (n.) One who commends or praises.

Commensal (n.) One who eats at the same table.

Commensal (n.) An animal, not truly parasitic, which lives in, with, or on, another, partaking usually of the same food. Both species may be benefited by the association.

Commensal (a.) Having the character of a commensal.

Commensalism (n.) The act of eating together; table fellowship.

Commensality (n.) Fellowship at table; the act or practice of eating at the same table.

Commensation (n.) Commensality.

Commensurability (n.) The quality of being commensurable.

Commensurable (a.) Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured by the same number, quantity, or measure.

Commensurably (adv.) In a commensurable manner; so as to be commensurable.

Commensurated (imp. & p. p.) of Commensurate

Commensurating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commensurate

Commensurate (v. t.) To reduce to a common measure.

Commensurate (v. t.) To proportionate; to adjust.

Commensurate (a.) Having a common measure; commensurable; reducible to a common measure; as, commensurate quantities.

Commensurate (a.) Equal in measure or extent; proportionate.

Commensurately (adv.) In a commensurate manner; so as to be equal or proportionate; adequately.

Commensurately (adv.) With equal measure or extent.

Commensurateness (n.) The state or quality of being commensurate.

Commensuration (n.) The act of commensurating; the state of being commensurate.

Commented (imp. & p. p.) of Comment

Commenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comment

Comment (v. i.) To make remarks, observations, or criticism; especially, to write notes on the works of an author, with a view to illustrate his meaning, or to explain particular passages; to write annotations; -- often followed by on or upon.

Comment (v. t.) To comment on.

Comment (n.) A remark, observation, or criticism; gossip; discourse; talk.

Comment (n.) A note or observation intended to explain, illustrate, or criticise the meaning of a writing, book, etc.; explanation; annotation; exposition.

Commentaries (pl. ) of Commentary

Commentary (v. i.) A series of comments or annotations; esp., a book of explanations or expositions on the whole or a part of the Scriptures or of some other work.

Commentary (v. i.) A brief account of transactions or events written hastily, as if for a memorandum; -- usually in the plural; as, Caesar's Commentaries on the Gallic War.

Commentate (v. t. & i.) To write comments or notes upon; to make comments.

Commentation (n.) The act or process of commenting or criticising; exposition.

Commentation (n.) The result of the labors of a commentator.

Commentator (n.) One who writes a commentary or comments; an expositor; an annotator.

Commentatorial (a.) Pertaining to the making of commentaries.

Commentatorship (n.) The office or occupation of a commentator.

Commenter (n.) One who makes or writes comments; a commentator; an annotator.

Commentitious (a.) Fictitious or imaginary; unreal; as, a commentitious system of religion.

Commerce (n.) The exchange or buying and selling of commodities; esp. the exchange of merchandise, on a large scale, between different places or communities; extended trade or traffic.

Commerce (n.) Social intercourse; the dealings of one person or class in society with another; familiarity.

Commerce (n.) Sexual intercourse.

Commerce (n.) A round game at cards, in which the cards are subject to exchange, barter, or trade.

Commerced (imp. & p. p.) of Commerce

Commercing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commerce

Commerce (v. i.) To carry on trade; to traffic.

Commerce (v. i.) To hold intercourse; to commune.

Commercial (a.) Of or pertaining to commerce; carrying on or occupied with commerce or trade; mercantile; as, commercial advantages; commercial relations.

Commercialism (n.) The commercial spirit or method.

Commercially (adv.) In a commercial manner.

Commigrate (v. i.) To migrate together.

Commigration (n.) Migration together.

Commination (n.) A threat or threatening; a denunciation of punishment or vengeance.

Commination (n.) An office in the liturgy of the Church of England, used on Ash Wednesday, containing a recital of God's anger and judgments against sinners.

Comminatory (a.) Threatening or denouncing punishment; as, comminatory terms.

Commingled (imp. & p. p.) of Commingle

Commingling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commingle

Commingle (v. t. & i.) To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; to blend.

Comminuted (imp. & p. p.) of Comminute

Comminuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comminute

Comminute (v. t.) To reduce to minute particles, or to a fine powder; to pulverize; to triturate; to grind; as, to comminute chalk or bones; to comminute food with the teeth.

Comminution (n.) The act of reducing to a fine powder or to small particles; pulverization; the state of being comminuted.

Comminution (n.) Fracture (of a bone) into a number of pieces.

Comminution (n.) Gradual diminution by the removal of small particles at a time; a lessening; a wearing away.

Commiserable (a.) Pitiable.

Commiserated (imp. & p. p.) of Commiserate

Commiserating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commiserate

Commiserate (v. t.) To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity.

Commiseration (n.) The act of commiserating; sorrow for the wants, afflictions, or distresses of another; pity; compassion.

Commiserative (a.) Feeling or expressing commiseration.

Commiserator (n.) One who pities.

Commissarial (a.) Of or pertaining to a commissary.

Commissariat (n.) The organized system by which armies and military posts are supplied with food and daily necessaries.

Commissariat (n.) The body of officers charged with such service.

Commissaries (pl. ) of Commissary

Commissary (n.) One to whom is committed some charge, duty, or office, by a superior power; a commissioner.

Commissary (n.) An officer of the bishop, who exercises ecclesiastical jurisdiction in parts of the diocese at a distance from the residence of the bishop.

Commissary (n.) An officer having charge of a special service; as, the commissary of musters.

Commissary (n.) An officer whose business is to provide food for a body of troops or a military post; -- officially called commissary of subsistence.

Commissaryship (n.) The office or employment of a commissary.

Commission (n.) The act of committing, doing, or performing; the act of perpetrating.

Commission (n.) The act of intrusting; a charge; instructions as to how a trust shall be executed.

Commission (n.) The duty or employment intrusted to any person or persons; a trust; a charge.

Commission (n.) A formal written warrant or authority, granting certain powers or privileges and authorizing or commanding the performance of certain duties.

Commission (n.) A certificate conferring military or naval rank and authority; as, a colonel's commission.

Commission (n.) A company of persons joined in the performance of some duty or the execution of some trust; as, the interstate commerce commission.

Commission (n.) The acting under authority of, or on account of, another.

Commission (n.) The thing to be done as agent for another; as, I have three commissions for the city.

Commission (n.) The brokerage or allowance made to a factor or agent for transacting business for another; as, a commission of ten per cent on sales. See Del credere.

Commissioned (imp. & p. p.) of Commission

Commissioning (p. pr & vb. n.) of Commission

Commission (v. t.) To give a commission to; to furnish with a commission; to empower or authorize; as, to commission persons to perform certain acts; to commission an officer.

Commission (v. t.) To send out with a charge or commission.

Commissional (a.) Alt. of Commissionary

Commissionary (a.) Of, pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by a commission or warrant.

Commissionate (v. t.) To commission

Commissioner (n.) A person who has a commission or warrant to perform some office, or execute some business, for the government, corporation, or person employing him; as, a commissioner to take affidavits or to adjust claims.

Commissioner (n.) An officer having charge of some department or bureau of the public service.

Commissionnaire (n.) An agent or factor; a commission merchant.

Commissionnaire (n.) One of a class of attendants, in some European cities, who perform miscellaneous services for travelers.

Commissionship (n.) The office of commissioner.

Commissive (a.) Relating to commission; of the nature of, or involving, commission.

Commissural (a.) Of or pertaining to a commissure.

Commissure (n.) A joint, seam, or closure; the place where two bodies, or parts of a body, meet and unite; an interstice, cleft, or juncture.

Commissure (n.) The point of union between two parts, as the angles of the lips or eyelids, the mandibles of a bird, etc.

Commissure (n.) A collection of fibers connecting parts of the brain or spinal marrow; a chiasma.

Commissure (n.) The line of junction or cohering face of two carpels, as in the parsnip, caraway, etc.

Committed (imp. & p. p.) of Commit

Committing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commit

Commit (v. t.) To give in trust; to put into charge or keeping; to intrust; to consign; -- used with to, unto.

Commit (v. t.) To put in charge of a jailor; to imprison.

Commit (v. t.) To do; to perpetrate, as a crime, sin, or fault.

Commit (v. t.) To join for a contest; to match; -- followed by with.

Commit (v. t.) To pledge or bind; to compromise, expose, or endanger by some decisive act or preliminary step; -- often used reflexively; as, to commit one's self to a certain course.

Commit (v. t.) To confound.

Commit (v. i.) To sin; esp., to be incontinent.

Commitment (n.) The act of committing, or putting in charge, keeping, or trust; consignment; esp., the act of committing to prison.

Commitment (n.) A warrant or order for the imprisonment of a person; -- more frequently termed a mittimus.

Commitment (n.) The act of referring or intrusting to a committee for consideration and report; as, the commitment of a petition or a bill.

Commitment (n.) A doing, or perpetration, in a bad sense, as of a crime or blunder; commission.

Commitment (n.) The act of pledging or engaging; the act of exposing, endangering, or compromising; also, the state of being pledged or engaged.

Committable (a.) Capable of being committed.

Committal (n.) The act of committing, or the state of being committed; commitment.

Committee (n.) One or more persons elected or appointed, to whom any matter or business is referred, either by a legislative body, or by a court, or by any collective body of men acting together.

Committee (v. t.) One to whom the charge of the person or estate of another, as of a lunatic, is committed by suitable authority; a guardian.

Committeeman (n.) A member of a committee.

Committer (n.) One who commits; one who does or perpetrates.

Committer (n.) A fornicator.

Committible (a.) Capable of being committed; liable to be committed.

Commixed (imp. & p. p.) of Commix

Commixing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commix

Commix (v. t. & i.) To mix or mingle together; to blend.

Commixion (n.) Commixture.

Commixtion (n.) Commixture; mingling.

Commixture (n.) The act or process of mixing; the state of being mingled; the blending of ingredients in one mass or compound.

Commixture (n.) The mass formed by mingling different things; a compound; a mixture.

Commodate (n.) A gratuitous loan.

Commode (n.) A kind of headdress formerly worn by ladies, raising the hair and fore part of the cap to a great height.

Commode (n.) A piece of furniture, so named according to temporary fashion

Commode (n.) A chest of drawers or a bureau.

Commode (n.) A night stand with a compartment for holding a chamber vessel.

Commode (n.) A kind of close stool.

Commode (n.) A movable sink or stand for a wash bowl, with closet.

Commodious (a.) Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities; serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable; as, a commodious house.

Commodiously (adv.) In a commodious manner.

Commodiousness (n.) State of being commodious; suitableness for its purpose; convenience; roominess.

Commodities (pl. ) of Commodity

Commodity (n.) Convenience; accommodation; profit; benefit; advantage; interest; commodiousness.

Commodity (n.) That which affords convenience, advantage, or profit, especially in commerce, including everything movable that is bought and sold (except animals), -- goods, wares, merchandise, produce of land and manufactures, etc.

Commodity (n.) A parcel or quantity of goods.

Commodore (n.) An officer who ranks next above a captain; sometimes, by courtesy, the senior captain of a squadron. The rank of commodore corresponds with that of brigadier general in the army.

Commodore (n.) A captain commanding a squadron, or a division of a fleet, or having the temporary rank of rear admiral.

Commodore (n.) A title given by courtesy to the senior captain of a line of merchant vessels, and also to the chief officer of a yachting or rowing club.

Commodore (n.) A familiar for the flagship, or for the principal vessel of a squadron or fleet.

Common (v.) Belonging or relating equally, or similarly, to more than one; as, you and I have a common interest in the property.

Common (v.) Belonging to or shared by, affecting or serving, all the members of a class, considered together; general; public; as, properties common to all plants; the common schools; the Book of Common Prayer.

Common (v.) Often met with; usual; frequent; customary.

Common (v.) Not distinguished or exceptional; inconspicuous; ordinary; plebeian; -- often in a depreciatory sense.

Common (v.) Profane; polluted.

Common (v.) Given to habits of lewdness; prostitute.

Common (n.) The people; the community.

Common (n.) An inclosed or uninclosed tract of ground for pleasure, for pasturage, etc., the use of which belongs to the public; or to a number of persons.

Common (n.) The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in common either with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from the community of interest which arises between the claimant of the right and the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and other commoners entitled to the same right.

Common (v. i.) To converse together; to discourse; to confer.

Common (v. i.) To participate.

Common (v. i.) To have a joint right with others in common ground.

Common (v. i.) To board together; to eat at a table in common.

Commonable (a.) Held in common.

Commonable (a.) Allowed to pasture on public commons.

Commonage (n.) The right of pasturing on a common; the right of using anything in common with others.

Commonalties (pl. ) of Commonalty

Commonalty (n.) The common people; those classes and conditions of people who are below the rank of nobility; the commons.

Commonalty (n.) The majority or bulk of mankind.

Commoner (n.) One of the common people; one having no rank of nobility.

Commoner (n.) A member of the House of Commons.

Commoner (n.) One who has a joint right in common ground.

Commoner (n.) One sharing with another in anything.

Commoner (n.) A student in the university of Oxford, Eng., who is not dependent on any foundation for support, but pays all university charges; - - at Cambridge called a pensioner.

Commoner (n.) A prostitute.

Commonish (a.) Somewhat common; commonplace; vulgar.

Commonition (n.) Advice; warning; instruction.

Commonitive (a.) Monitory.

Commonitory (a.) Calling to mind; giving admonition.

Commonly (adv.) Usually; generally; ordinarily; frequently; for the most part; as, confirmed habits commonly continue through life.

Commonly (adv.) In common; familiarly.

Commonness (n.) State or quality of being common or usual; as, the commonness of sunlight.

Commonness (n.) Triteness; meanness.

Commonplace (a.) Common; ordinary; trite; as, a commonplace person, or observation.

Commonplace (n.) An idea or expression wanting originality or interest; a trite or customary remark; a platitude.

Commonplace (n.) A memorandum; something to be frequently consulted or referred to.

Commonplace (v. t.) To enter in a commonplace book, or to reduce to general heads.

Commonplace (v. i.) To utter commonplaces; to indulge in platitudes.

Commonplaceness (n.) The quality of being commonplace; commonness.

Commons (n. pl.) The mass of the people, as distinguished from the titled classes or nobility; the commonalty; the common people.

Commons (n. pl.) The House of Commons, or lower house of the British Parliament, consisting of representatives elected by the qualified voters of counties, boroughs, and universities.

Commons (n. pl.) Provisions; food; fare, -- as that provided at a common table in colleges and universities.

Commons (n. pl.) A club or association for boarding at a common table, as in a college, the members sharing the expenses equally; as, to board in commons.

Commons (n. pl.) A common; public pasture ground.

Common sense () See Common sense, under Sense.

Commonty (n.) A common; a piece of land in which two or more persons have a common right.

Commonweal (n.) Commonwealth.

Commonwealth (n.) A state; a body politic consisting of a certain number of men, united, by compact or tacit agreement, under one form of government and system of laws.

Commonwealth (n.) The whole body of people in a state; the public.

Commonwealth (n.) Specifically, the form of government established on the death of Charles I., in 1649, which existed under Oliver Cromwell and his son Richard, ending with the abdication of the latter in 1659.

Commorance (n.) See Commorancy.

Commorancy (n.) A dwelling or ordinary residence in a place; habitation.

Commorancy (n.) Residence temporarily, or for a short time.

Commorant (n.) Ordinarily residing; inhabiting.

Commorant (n.) Inhabiting or occupying temporarily.

Commorant (n.) A resident.

Commoration (n.) The act of staying or residing in a place.

Commorient (a.) Dying together or at the same time.

Commorse (n.) Remorse.

Commote (v. t.) To commove; to disturb; to stir up.

Commotion (n.) Disturbed or violent motion; agitation.

Commotion (n.) A popular tumult; public disturbance; riot.

Commotion (n.) Agitation, perturbation, or disorder, of mind; heat; excitement.

Commoved (imp. & p. p.) of Commove

Commoving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commove

Commove (v. t.) To urge; to persuade; to incite.

Commove (v. t.) To put in motion; to disturb; to unsettle.

Communal (a.) Pertaining to a commune.

Communalism (n.) A French theory of government which holds that commune should be a kind of independent state, and the national government a confederation of such states, having only limited powers. It is advocated by advanced French republicans; but it should not be confounded with communism.

Communalist (n.) An advocate of communalism.

Communalistic (a.) Pertaining to communalism.

Communed (imp. & p. p.) of Commune

Communing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commune

Commune (v. i.) To converse together with sympathy and confidence; to interchange sentiments or feelings; to take counsel.

Commune (v. i.) To receive the communion; to partake of the eucharist or Lord's supper.

Commune (n.) Communion; sympathetic intercourse or conversation between friends.

Commune (n.) The commonalty; the common people.

Commune (n.) A small territorial district in France under the government of a mayor and municipal council; also, the inhabitants, or the government, of such a district. See Arrondissement.

Commune (n.) Absolute municipal self-government.

Communicability (n.) The quality of being communicable; capability of being imparted.

Communicable (a.) Capable of being communicated, or imparted; as, a communicable disease; communicable knowledge.

Communicable (a.) Communicative; free-speaking.

Communicant (n.) One who partakes of, or is entitled to partake of, the sacrament of the Lord's supper; a church member.

Communicant (n.) One who communicates.

Communicant (a.) Communicating.

Communicated (imp. & p. p.) of Communicate

Communicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Communicate

Communicate (v. i.) To share in common; to participate in.

Communicate (v. i.) To impart; to bestow; to convey; as, to communicate a disease or a sensation; to communicate motion by means of a crank.

Communicate (v. i.) To make known; to recount; to give; to impart; as, to communicate information to any one.

Communicate (v. i.) To administer the communion to.

Communicate (v. i.) To share or participate; to possess or enjoy in common; to have sympathy.

Communicate (v. i.) To give alms, sympathy, or aid.

Communicate (v. i.) To have intercourse or to be the means of intercourse; as, to communicate with another on business; to be connected; as, a communicating artery.

Communicate (v. i.) To partake of the Lord's supper; to commune.

Communication (n.) The act or fact of communicating; as, communication of smallpox; communication of a secret.

Communication (n.) Intercourse by words, letters, or messages; interchange of thoughts or opinions, by conference or other means; conference; correspondence.

Communication (n.) Association; company.

Communication (n.) Means of communicating; means of passing from place to place; a connecting passage; connection.

Communication (n.) That which is communicated or imparted; intelligence; news; a verbal or written message.

Communication (n.) Participation in the Lord's supper.

Communication (n.) A trope, by which a speaker assumes that his hearer is a partner in his sentiments, and says we, instead of I or you.

Communicative (a.) Inclined to communicate; ready to impart to others.

Communicativeness (n.) The quality of being communicative.

Communicator (n.) One who communicates.

Communicatory (a.) Imparting knowledge or information.

Communion (n.) The act of sharing; community; participation.

Communion (n.) Intercourse between two or more persons; esp., intimate association and intercourse implying sympathy and confidence; interchange of thoughts, purposes, etc.; agreement; fellowship; as, the communion of saints.

Communion (n.) A body of Christians having one common faith and discipline; as, the Presbyterian communion.

Communion (n.) The sacrament of the eucharist; the celebration of the Lord's supper; the act of partaking of the sacrament; as, to go to communion; to partake of the communion.

Communism (n.) A scheme of equalizing the social conditions of life; specifically, a scheme which contemplates the abolition of inequalities in the possession of property, as by distributing all wealth equally to all, or by holding all wealth in common for the equal use and advantage of all.

Communist (n.) An advocate for the theory or practice of communism.

Communist (n.) A supporter of the commune of Paris.

Communistic (a.) Of or pertaining to communism or communists; as, communistic theories.

Communistic (a.) Living or having their nests in common, as certain birds.

Communities (pl. ) of Community

Community (n.) Common possession or enjoyment; participation; as, a community of goods.

Community (n.) A body of people having common rights, privileges, or interests, or living in the same place under the same laws and regulations; as, a community of monks. Hence a number of animals living in a common home or with some apparent association of interests.

Community (n.) Society at large; a commonwealth or state; a body politic; the public, or people in general.

Community (n.) Common character; likeness.

Community (n.) Commonness; frequency.

Commutability (n.) The quality of being commutable.

Commutable (a.) Capable of being commuted or interchanged.

Commutableness (n.) The quality of being commutable; interchangeableness.

Commutation (n.) A passing from one state to another; change; alteration; mutation.

Commutation (n.) The act of giving one thing for another; barter; exchange.

Commutation (n.) The change of a penalty or punishment by the pardoning power of the State; as, the commutation of a sentence of death to banishment or imprisonment.

Commutation (n.) A substitution, as of a less thing for a greater, esp. a substitution of one form of payment for another, or one payment for many, or a specific sum of money for conditional payments or allowances; as, commutation of tithes; commutation of fares; commutation of copyright; commutation of rations.

Commutative (a.) Relative to exchange; interchangeable; reciprocal.

Commutator (n.) A piece of apparatus used for reversing the direction of an electrical current; an attachment to certain electrical machines, by means of which alternating currents are made to be continuous or to have the same direction.

Commuted (imp. & p. p.) of Commute

Commuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commute

Commute (v. t.) To exchange; to put or substitute something else in place of, as a smaller penalty, obligation, or payment, for a greater, or a single thing for an aggregate; hence, to lessen; to diminish; as, to commute a sentence of death to one of imprisonment for life; to commute tithes; to commute charges for fares.

Commute (v. i.) To obtain or bargain for exemption or substitution; to effect a commutation.

Commute (v. i.) To pay, or arrange to pay, in gross instead of part by part; as, to commute for a year's travel over a route.

Commuter (n.) One who commutes; especially, one who commutes in traveling.

Commutual (a.) Mutual; reciprocal; united.

Comose (a.) Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed.

Compact (p. p. & a) Joined or held together; leagued; confederated.

Compact (p. p. & a) Composed or made; -- with of.

Compact (p. p. & a) Closely or firmly united, as the particles of solid bodies; firm; close; solid; dense.

Compact (p. p. & a) Brief; close; pithy; not diffuse; not verbose; as, a compact discourse.

Compacted (imp. & p. p.) of Compact

Compacting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compact

Compact (v. t.) To thrust, drive, or press closely together; to join firmly; to consolidate; to make close; -- as the parts which compose a body.

Compact (v. t.) To unite or connect firmly, as in a system.

Compact (n.) An agreement between parties; a covenant or contract.

Compacted (a.) Compact; pressed close; concentrated; firmly united.

Compactedly (adv.) In a compact manner.

Compactedness (n.) A state of being compact.

Compacter (n.) One who makes a compact.

Compactible (a.) That may be compacted.

Compaction (n.) The act of making compact, or the state of being compact.

Compactly (adv.) In a compact manner; with close union of parts; densely; tersely.

Compactness (n.) The state or quality of being compact; close union of parts; density.

Compacture (n.) Close union or connection of parts; manner of joining; construction.

Compages (v. t.) A system or structure of many parts united.

Compaginate (v. t.) To unite or hold together; as, the side pieces compaginate the frame.

Compagination (n.) Union of parts; structure.

Companable (a.) Companionable; sociable.

Companator (n.) Same as Impanator.

Companiable (a.) Companionable; sociable.

Companion (n.) One who accompanies or is in company with another for a longer or shorter period, either from choice or casually; one who is much in the company of, or is associated with, another or others; an associate; a comrade; a consort; a partner.

Companion (n.) A knight of the lowest rank in certain orders; as, a companion of the Bath.

Companion (n.) A fellow; -- in contempt.

Companion (n.) A skylight on an upper deck with frames and sashes of various shapes, to admit light to a cabin or lower deck.

Companion (n.) A wooden hood or penthouse covering the companion way; a companion hatch.

Companion (v. t.) To be a companion to; to attend on; to accompany.

Companion (v. t.) To qualify as a companion; to make equal.

Companionable (a.) Fitted to be a companion; fit for good fellowship; agreeable; sociable.

Companionless (a.) Without a companion.

Companionship (n.) Fellowship; association; the act or fact of keeping company with any one.

Companies (pl. ) of Company

Company (n.) The state of being a companion or companions; the act of accompanying; fellowship; companionship; society; friendly intercourse.

Company (n.) A companion or companions.

Company (n.) An assemblage or association of persons, either permanent or transient.

Company (n.) Guests or visitors, in distinction from the members of a family; as, to invite company to dine.

Company (n.) Society, in general; people assembled for social intercourse.

Company (n.) An association of persons for the purpose of carrying on some enterprise or business; a corporation; a firm; as, the East India Company; an insurance company; a joint-stock company.

Company (n.) Partners in a firm whose names are not mentioned in its style or title; -- often abbreviated in writing; as, Hottinguer & Co.

Company (n.) A subdivision of a regiment of troops under the command of a captain, numbering in the United States (full strength) 100 men.

Company (n.) The crew of a ship, including the officers; as, a whole ship's company.

Company (n.) The body of actors employed in a theater or in the production of a play.

Companied (imp. & p. p.) of Company

Companying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Company

Company (v. t.) To accompany or go with; to be companion to.

Company (v. i.) To associate.

Company (v. i.) To be a gay companion.

Company (v. i.) To have sexual commerce.

Comparable (a.) Capable of being compared; worthy of comparison.

Comparate (n.) One of two things compared together.

Comparation (n.) A making ready; provision.

Comparative (a.) Of or pertaining to comparison.

Comparative (a.) Proceeding from, or by the method of, comparison; as, the comparative sciences; the comparative anatomy.

Comparative (a.) Estimated by comparison; relative; not positive or absolute, as compared with another thing or state.

Comparative (a.) Expressing a degree greater or less than the positive degree of the quality denoted by an adjective or adverb. The comparative degree is formed from the positive by the use of -er, more, or less; as, brighter, more bright, or less bright.

Comparative (n.) The comparative degree of adjectives and adverbs; also, the form by which the comparative degree is expressed; as, stronger, wiser, weaker, more stormy, less windy, are all comparatives.

Comparative (n.) An equal; a rival; a compeer.

Comparative (n.) One who makes comparisons; one who affects wit.

Comparatively (adv.) According to estimate made by comparison; relatively; not positively or absolutely.

Comparator (n.) An instrument or machine for comparing anything to be measured with a standard measure; -- applied especially to a machine for comparing standards of length.

Compared (imp. & p. p.) of Compare

Comparing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compare

Compare (v. t.) To examine the character or qualities of, as of two or more persons or things, for the purpose of discovering their resemblances or differences; to bring into comparison; to regard with discriminating attention.

Compare (v. t.) To represent as similar, for the purpose of illustration; to liken.

Compare (v. t.) To inflect according to the degrees of comparison; to state positive, comparative, and superlative forms of; as, most adjectives of one syllable are compared by affixing - er and -est to the positive form; as, black, blacker, blackest; those of more than one syllable are usually compared by prefixing more and most, or less and least, to the positive; as, beautiful, more beautiful, most beautiful.

Compare (v. i.) To be like or equal; to admit, or be worthy of, comparison; as, his later work does not compare with his earlier.

Compare (v. i.) To vie; to assume a likeness or equality.

Compare (n.) Comparison.

Compare (n.) Illustration by comparison; simile.

Compare (v. t.) To get; to procure; to obtain; to acquire

Comparer (n.) One who compares.

Comparison (n.) The act of comparing; an examination of two or more objects with the view of discovering the resemblances or differences; relative estimate.

Comparison (n.) The state of being compared; a relative estimate; also, a state, quality, or relation, admitting of being compared; as, to bring a thing into comparison with another; there is no comparison between them.

Comparison (n.) That to which, or with which, a thing is compared, as being equal or like; illustration; similitude.

Comparison (n.) The modification, by inflection or otherwise, which the adjective and adverb undergo to denote degrees of quality or quantity; as, little, less, least, are examples of comparison.

Comparison (n.) A figure by which one person or thing is compared to another, or the two are considered with regard to some property or quality, which is common to them both; e.g., the lake sparkled like a jewel.

Comparison (n.) The faculty of the reflective group which is supposed to perceive resemblances and contrasts.

Comparison (v. t.) To compare.

Comparted (imp. & p. p.) of Compart

Comparting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compart

Compart (v. t.) To divide; to mark out into parts or subdivisions.

Compartition (n.) The act of dividing into parts or compartments; division; also, a division or compartment.

Compartment (n.) One of the parts into which an inclosed portion of space is divided, as by partitions, or lines; as, the compartments of a cabinet, a house, or a garden.

Compartment (n.) One of the sections into which the hold of a ship is divided by water-tight bulkheads.

Compartner (n.) See Copartner.

Compass (n.) A passing round; circuit; circuitous course.

Compass (n.) An inclosing limit; boundary; circumference; as, within the compass of an encircling wall.

Compass (n.) An inclosed space; an area; extent.

Compass (n.) Extent; reach; sweep; capacity; sphere; as, the compass of his eye; the compass of imagination.

Compass (n.) Moderate bounds, limits of truth; moderation; due limits; -- used with within.

Compass (n.) The range of notes, or tones, within the capacity of a voice or instrument.

Compass (n.) An instrument for determining directions upon the earth's surface by means of a magnetized bar or needle turning freely upon a pivot and pointing in a northerly and southerly direction.

Compass (n.) A pair of compasses.

Compass (n.) A circle; a continent.

Compassed (imp. & p. p.) of Compass

Compassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compass

Compass (v. t.) To go about or entirely round; to make the circuit of.

Compass (v. t.) To inclose on all sides; to surround; to encircle; to environ; to invest; to besiege; -- used with about, round, around, and round about.

Compass (v. t.) To reach round; to circumvent; to get within one's power; to obtain; to accomplish.

Compass (v. t.) To curve; to bend into a circular form.

Compass (v. t.) To purpose; to intend; to imagine; to plot.

Compassable (a.) Capable of being compassed or accomplished.

Compassed (a.) Rounded; arched.

Compasses (n.) An instrument for describing circles, measuring figures, etc., consisting of two, or (rarely) more, pointed branches, or legs, usually joined at the top by a rivet on which they move.

Compassing (a.) Curved; bent; as, compassing timbers.

Compassion (n.) Literally, suffering with another; a sensation of sorrow excited by the distress or misfortunes of another; pity; commiseration.

Compassion (v. t.) To pity.

Compassionable (a.) Deserving compassion or pity; pitiable.

Compassionate (a.) Having a temper or disposition to pity; sympathetic; merciful.

Compassionate (a.) Complaining; inviting pity; pitiable.

Compassionated (imp. & p. p.) of Compassionate

Compassionating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compassionate

Compassionate (v. t.) To have compassion for; to pity; to commiserate; to sympathize with.

Compassionately (adv.) In a compassionate manner; mercifully.

Compassionateness (n.) The quality or state of being compassionate.

Compassless (a.) Having no compass.

Compaternity (n.) The relation of a godfather to a person.

Compatibility (n.) The quality or power of being compatible or congruous; congruity; as, a compatibility of tempers; a compatibility of properties.

Compatible (a.) Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; not repugnant; -- usually followed by with.

Compatibleness (n.) Compatibility; consistency; fitness; agreement.

Compatibly (adv.) In a compatible manner.

Compatient (a.) Suffering or enduring together.

Compatriot (n.) One of the same country, and having like interests and feeling.

Compatriot (a.) Of the same country; having a common sentiment of patriotism.

Compatriotism (n.) The condition of being compatriots.

Compear (v. i.) To appear.

Compear (v. i.) To appear in court personally or by attorney.

Compeer () An equal, as in rank, age, prowess, etc.; a companion; a comrade; a mate.

Compeer (v. t.) To be equal with; to match.

Compeer (v. i.) Alt. of Compeir

Compeir (v. i.) See Compear.

Compelled (imp. & p. p.) of Compel

Compelling (p. pr. & vb. n) of Compel

Compel (v. t.) To drive or urge with force, or irresistibly; to force; to constrain; to oblige; to necessitate, either by physical or moral force.

Compel (v. t.) To take by force or violence; to seize; to exact; to extort.

Compel (v. t.) To force to yield; to overpower; to subjugate.

Compel (v. t.) To gather or unite in a crowd or company.

Compel (v. t.) To call forth; to summon.

Compel (v. i.) To make one yield or submit.

Compellable (a.) Capable of being compelled or constrained.

Compellably (adv.) By compulsion.

Compellation (n.) Style of address or salutation; an appellation.

Compellative (n.) The name by which a person is addressed; an appellative.

Compellatory (a.) Serving to compel; compulsory.

Compeller (n.) One who compels or constrains.

Compend (n.) A compendium; an epitome; a summary.

Compendiarious (a.) Short; compendious.

Compendiate (v. t.) To sum or collect together.

Compendious (a.) Containing the substance or general principles of a subject or work in a narrow compass; abridged; summarized.

Compendiously (adv.) In a compendious manner.

Compendiousness (n.) The state or quality of being compendious.

Compendiums (pl. ) of Compendium

Compendia (pl. ) of Compendium

Compendium (n.) A brief compilation or composition, containing the principal heads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; an abridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary.

Compensated (imp. & p. p.) of Compensate

Compensating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compensate

Compensate (v. t.) To make equal return to; to remunerate; to recompense; to give an equivalent to; to requite suitably; as, to compensate a laborer for his work, or a merchant for his losses.

Compensate (v. t.) To be equivalent in value or effect to; to counterbalance; to make up for; to make amends for.

Compensate (v. i.) To make amends; to supply an equivalent; -- followed by for; as, nothing can compensate for the loss of reputation.

Compensation (n.) The act or principle of compensating.

Compensation (n.) That which constitutes, or is regarded as, an equivalent; that which makes good the lack or variation of something else; that which compensates for loss or privation; amends; remuneration; recompense.

Compensation (n.) The extinction of debts of which two persons are reciprocally debtors by the credits of which they are reciprocally creditors; the payment of a debt by a credit of equal amount; a set-off.

Compensation (n.) A recompense or reward for some loss or service.

Compensation (n.) An equivalent stipulated for in contracts for the sale of real estate, in which it is customary to provide that errors in description, etc., shall not avoid, but shall be the subject of compensation.

Compensative (a.) Affording compensation.

Compensative (n.) Compensation.

Compensator (n.) One who, or that which, compensates; -- a name applied to various mechanical devices.

Compensator (n.) An iron plate or magnet placed near the compass on iron vessels to neutralize the effect of the ship's attraction on the needle.

Compensatory (a.) Serving for compensation; making amends.

Compense (v. t.) To compensate.

Comperendinate (v. t.) To delay.

Compesce (v. t.) To hold in check; to restrain.

Competed (imp. & p. p.) of Compete

Competing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compete

Compete (v. i.) To contend emulously; to seek or strive for the same thing, position, or reward for which another is striving; to contend in rivalry, as for a prize or in business; as, tradesmen compete with one another.

Competence (n.) Alt. of Competency

Competency (n.) The state of being competent; fitness; ability; adequacy; power.

Competency (n.) Property or means sufficient for the necessaries and conveniences of life; sufficiency without excess.

Competency (n.) Legal capacity or qualifications; fitness; as, the competency of a witness or of a evidence.

Competency (n.) Right or authority; legal power or capacity to take cognizance of a cause; as, the competence of a judge or court.

Competent (a.) Answering to all requirements; adequate; sufficient; suitable; capable; legally qualified; fit.

Competent (a.) Rightfully or properly belonging; incident; -- followed by to.

Competently (adv.) In a competent manner; adequately; suitably.

Competible (a.) Compatible; suitable; consistent.

Competition (n.) The act of seeking, or endeavoring to gain, what another is endeavoring to gain at the same time; common strife for the same objects; strife for superiority; emulous contest; rivalry, as for approbation, for a prize, or as where two or more persons are engaged in the same business and each seeking patronage; -- followed by for before the object sought, and with before the person or thing competed with.

Competitive (a.) Of or pertaining to competition; producing competition; competitory; as, a competitive examination.

Competitor (n.) One who seeks what another seeks, or claims what another claims; one who competes; a rival.

Competitor (n.) An associate; a confederate.

Competitory (a.) Acting in competition; competing; rival.

Competitress (n.) A woman who competes.

Competitrix (n.) A competitress.

Compilation (n.) The act or process of compiling or gathering together from various sources.

Compilation (n.) That which is compiled; especially, a book or document composed of materials gathering from other books or documents.

Compilator (n.) Compiler.

Compiled (imp. & p. p.) of Compile

Compiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compile

Compile (v. t.) To put together; to construct; to build.

Compile (v. t.) To contain or comprise.

Compile (v. t.) To put together in a new form out of materials already existing; esp., to put together or compose out of materials from other books or documents.

Compile (v. t.) To write; to compose.

Compilement (n.) Compilation.

Compiler (n.) One who compiles; esp., one who makes books by compilation.

Compinge (v. t.) To compress; to shut up.

Complacence (n.) Alt. of Complacency

Complacency (n.) Calm contentment; satisfaction; gratification.

Complacency (n.) The cause of pleasure or joy.

Complacency (n.) The manifestation of contentment or satisfaction; good nature; kindness; civility; affability.

Complacent (a.) Self-satisfied; contented; kindly; as, a complacent temper; a complacent smile.

Complacential (a.) Marked by, or causing, complacence.

Complacently (adv.) In a complacent manner.

Complained (imp. & p. p.) of Complain

Complaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complain

Complain (v. i.) To give utterance to expression of grief, pain, censure, regret. etc.; to lament; to murmur; to find fault; -- commonly used with of. Also, to creak or squeak, as a timber or wheel.

Complain (v. i.) To make a formal accusation; to make a charge.

Complain (v. t.) To lament; to bewail.

Complainable (a.) That may be complained of.

Complainant (n.) One who makes complaint.

Complainant (n.) One who commences a legal process by a complaint.

Complainant (n.) The party suing in equity, answering to the plaintiff at common law.

Complainer (n.) One who complains or laments; one who finds fault; a murmurer.

Complaint (n.) Expression of grief, regret, pain, censure, or resentment; lamentation; murmuring; accusation; fault-finding.

Complaint (n.) Cause or subject of complaint or murmuring.

Complaint (n.) An ailment or disease of the body.

Complaint (n.) A formal allegation or charge against a party made or presented to the appropriate court or officer, as for a wrong done or a crime committed (in the latter case, generally under oath); an information; accusation; the initial bill in proceedings in equity.

Complaintful (a.) Full of complaint.

Complaisance (n.) Disposition to please or oblige; obliging compliance with the wishes of others; a deportment indicative of a desire to please; courtesy; civility.

Complaisant (a.) Desirous to please; courteous; obliging; compliant; as, a complaisant gentleman.

Complanar (a.) See Coplanar.

Complanate (v. t.) Flattened to a level surface.

Complanate (v. t.) To make level.

Complected (a.) Complexioned.

Complement (v. t.) That which fills up or completes; the quantity or number required to fill a thing or make it complete.

Complement (v. t.) That which is required to supply a deficiency, or to complete a symmetrical whole.

Complement (v. t.) Full quantity, number, or amount; a complete set; completeness.

Complement (v. t.) A second quantity added to a given quantity to make it equal to a third given quantity.

Complement (v. t.) Something added for ornamentation; an accessory.

Complement (v. t.) The whole working force of a vessel.

Complement (v. t.) The interval wanting to complete the octave; -- the fourth is the complement of the fifth, the sixth of the third.

Complement (v. t.) A compliment.

Complement (v. t.) To supply a lack; to supplement.

Complement (v. t.) To compliment.

Complemental (a.) Supplying, or tending to supply, a deficiency; fully completing.

Complemental (a.) Complimentary; courteous.

Complementary (a.) Serving to fill out or to complete; as, complementary numbers.

Complementary (n.) One skilled in compliments.

Complete (a.) Filled up; with no part or element lacking; free from deficiency; entire; perfect; consummate.

Complete (a.) Finished; ended; concluded; completed; as, the edifice is complete.

Complete (a.) Having all the parts or organs which belong to it or to the typical form; having calyx, corolla, stamens, and pistil.

Completed (imp. & p. p.) of Complete

Completing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complete

Complete (v. t.) To bring to a state in which there is no deficiency; to perfect; to consummate; to accomplish; to fulfill; to finish; as, to complete a task, or a poem; to complete a course of education.

Completely (adv.) In a complete manner; fully.

Completement (n.) Act of completing or perfecting; completion.

Completeness (n.) The state of being complete.

Completion (n.) The act or process of making complete; the getting through to the end; as, the completion of an undertaking, an education, a service.

Completion (n.) State of being complete; fulfillment; accomplishment; realization.

Completive (a.) Making complete.

Completory (a.) Serving to fulfill.

Completory (n.) Same as Compline.

Complex (n.) Composed of two or more parts; composite; not simple; as, a complex being; a complex idea.

Complex (n.) Involving many parts; complicated; intricate.

Complex (n.) Assemblage of related things; collection; complication.

Complexed (a.) Complex, complicated.

Complexedness (n.) The quality or state of being complex or involved; complication.

Complexion (n.) The state of being complex; complexity.

Complexion (n.) A combination; a complex.

Complexion (n.) The bodily constitution; the temperament; habitude, or natural disposition; character; nature.

Complexion (n.) The color or hue of the skin, esp. of the face.

Complexion (n.) The general appearance or aspect; as, the complexion of the sky; the complexion of the news.

Complexional (a.) Of or pertaining to constitutional complexion.

Complexionally (adv.) Constitutionally.

Complexionary (a.) Pertaining to the complexion, or to the care of it.

Complexioned (a.) Having (such) a complexion; -- used in composition; as, a dark-complexioned or a ruddy-complexioned person.

Complexities (pl. ) of Complexity

Complexity (n.) The state of being complex; intricacy; entanglement.

Complexity (n.) That which is complex; intricacy; complication.

Complexly (adv.) In a complex manner; not simply.

Complexness (n.) The state of being complex; complexity.

Complexus (n.) A complex; an aggregate of parts; a complication.

Compliable (a.) Capable of bending or yielding; apt to yield; compliant.

Compliance (n.) The act of complying; a yielding; as to a desire, demand, or proposal; concession; submission.

Compliance (n.) A disposition to yield to others; complaisance.

Compliancy (n.) Compliance; disposition to yield to others.

Compliant (a.) Yielding; bending; pliant; submissive.

Compliantly (adv.) In a compliant manner.

Complicacy (n.) A state of being complicate or intricate.

Complicant (a.) Overlapping, as the elytra of certain beetles.

Complicate (a.) Composed of two or more parts united; complex; complicated; involved.

Complicate (a.) Folded together, or upon itself, with the fold running lengthwise.

Complicated (imp. & p. p.) of Complicate

Complicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complicate

Complicate (v. t.) To fold or twist together; to combine intricately; to make complex; to combine or associate so as to make intricate or difficult.

Complicately (adv.) In a complex manner.

Complicateness (n.) Complexity.

Complication (n.) The act or process of complicating; the state of being complicated; intricate or confused relation of parts; entanglement; complexity.

Complication (n.) A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances or conditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but not necessarily connected with it.

Complices (pl. ) of Complice

Complice (n.) An accomplice.

Complicities (pl. ) of Complicity

Complicity (n.) The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt.

Complier (n.) One who complies, yields, or obeys; one of an easy, yielding temper.

Compliment (n.) An expression, by word or act, of approbation, regard, confidence, civility, or admiration; a flattering speech or attention; a ceremonious greeting; as, to send one's compliments to a friend.

Compliment (v. t.) To praise, flatter, or gratify, by expressions of approbation, respect, or congratulation; to make or pay a compliment to.

Compliment (v. i.) To pass compliments; to use conventional expressions of respect.

Complimental (a.) Complimentary.

Complimentary (a.) Expressive of regard or praise; of the nature of, or containing, a compliment; as, a complimentary remark; a complimentary ticket.

Complimentative (a.) Complimentary.

Complimenter (n.) One who compliments; one given to complimenting; a flatterer.

Compline (n.) Alt. of Complin

Complin (n.) The last division of the Roman Catholic breviary; the seventh and last of the canonical hours of the Western church; the last prayer of the day, to be said after sunset.

Complot (n.) A plotting together; a confederacy in some evil design; a conspiracy.

Complotted (imp. & p. p.) of Complot

Complotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complot

Complot (v. t. & i.) To plot or plan together; to conspire; to join in a secret design.

Complotment (n.) A plotting together.

Complotter (n.) One joined in a plot.

Complutensian (a.) Of or pertaining to Complutum (now Alcala de Henares) a city near Madrid; as, the Complutensian Bible.

Compluvium (n.) A space left unroofed over the court of a Roman dwelling, through which the rain fell into the impluvium or cistern.

Complied (imp. & p. p.) of Comply

Complying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comply

Comply (v. i.) To yield assent; to accord; agree, or acquiesce; to adapt one's self; to consent or conform; -- usually followed by with.

Comply (v. i.) To be ceremoniously courteous; to make one's compliments.

Comply (v. i.) To fulfill; to accomplish.

Comply (v. i.) To infold; to embrace.

Compone (v. t.) To compose; to settle; to arrange.

Compone (a.) See Compony.

Component (v. t.) Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting; constituent.

Component (n.) A constituent part; an ingredient.

Compony (a.) Alt. of Compone

Compone (a.) Divided into squares of alternate tinctures in a single row; -- said of any bearing; or, in the case of a bearing having curved lines, divided into patches of alternate colors following the curve. If there are two rows it is called counter-compony.

Comported (imp. & p. p.) of Comport

Comporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comport

Comport (v. i.) To bear or endure; to put up (with); as, to comport with an injury.

Comport (v. i.) To agree; to accord; to suit; -- sometimes followed by with.

Comport (v. t.) To bear; to endure; to brook; to put with.

Comport (v. t.) To carry; to conduct; -- with a reflexive pronoun.

Comport (n.) Manner of acting; behavior; conduct; deportment.

Comportable (a.) Suitable; consistent.

Comportance (n.) Behavior; comport.

Comportation (n.) A bringing together.

Comportment (n.) Manner of acting; behavior; bearing.

Composed (imp. & p. p.) of Compose

Composing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compose

Compose (v. t.) To form by putting together two or more things or parts; to put together; to make up; to fashion.

Compose (v. t.) To form the substance of, or part of the substance of; to constitute.

Compose (v. t.) To construct by mental labor; to design and execute, or put together, in a manner involving the adaptation of forms of expression to ideas, or to the laws of harmony or proportion; as, to compose a sentence, a sermon, a symphony, or a picture.

Compose (v. t.) To dispose in proper form; to reduce to order; to put in proper state or condition; to adjust; to regulate.

Compose (v. t.) To free from agitation or disturbance; to tranquilize; to soothe; to calm; to quiet.

Compose (v. t.) To arrange (types) in a composing stick in order for printing; to set (type).

Compose (v. i.) To come to terms.

Composed (a.) Free from agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self-possessed.

Composer (n.) One who composes; an author. Specifically, an author of a piece of music.

Composer (n.) One who, or that which, quiets or calms; one who adjusts a difference.

Composing (a.) Tending to compose or soothe.

Composing (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, composition.

Compositae (n. pl.) A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowers arranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthers united in a tube. The daisy, dandelion, and asters, are examples.

Composite (v. t.) Made up of distinct parts or elements; compounded; as, a composite language.

Composite (v. t.) Belonging to a certain order which is composed of the Ionic order grafted upon the Corinthian. It is called also the Roman or the Italic order, and is one of the five orders recognized by the Italian writers of the sixteenth century. See Capital.

Composite (v. t.) Belonging to the order Compositae; bearing involucrate heads of many small florets, as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion.

Composite (n.) That which is made up of parts or compounded of several elements; composition; combination; compound.

Composition (n.) The act or art of composing, or forming a whole or integral, by placing together and uniting different things, parts, or ingredients.

Composition (n.) The invention or combination of the parts of any literary work or discourse, or of a work of art; as, the composition of a poem or a piece of music.

Composition (n.) The art or practice of so combining the different parts of a work of art as to produce a harmonious whole; also, a work of art considered as such. See 4, below.

Composition (n.) The act of writing for practice in a language, as English, Latin, German, etc.

Composition (n.) The setting up of type and arranging it for printing.

Composition (n.) The state of being put together or composed; conjunction; combination; adjustment.

Composition (n.) A mass or body formed by combining two or more substances; as, a chemical composition.

Composition (n.) A literary, musical, or artistic production, especially one showing study and care in arrangement; -- often used of an elementary essay or translation done as an educational exercise.

Composition (n.) Consistency; accord; congruity.

Composition (n.) Mutual agreement to terms or conditions for the settlement of a difference or controversy; also, the terms or conditions of settlement; agreement.

Composition (n.) The adjustment of a debt, or avoidance of an obligation, by some form of compensation agreed on between the parties; also, the sum or amount of compensation agreed upon in the adjustment.

Composition (n.) Synthesis as opposed to analysis.

Compositive (a.) Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded.

Compositor (n.) One who composes or sets in order.

Compositor (n.) One who sets type and arranges it for use.

Compositous (a.) Belonging to the Compositae; composite.

Compossible (a.) Able to exist with another thing; consistent.

Compost (n.) A mixture; a compound.

Compost (n.) A mixture for fertilizing land; esp., a composition of various substances (as muck, mold, lime, and stable manure) thoroughly mingled and decomposed, as in a compost heap.

Compost (v. t.) To manure with compost.

Compost (v. t.) To mingle, as different fertilizing substances, in a mass where they will decompose and form into a compost.

Composture (n.) Manure; compost.

Composure (n.) The act of composing, or that which is composed; a composition.

Composure (n.) Orderly adjustment; disposition.

Composure (n.) Frame; make; temperament.

Composure (n.) A settled state; calmness; sedateness; tranquillity; repose.

Composure (n.) A combination; a union; a bond.

Compotation (n.) The act of drinking or tippling together.

Compotator (n.) One who drinks with another.

Compote (n.) A preparation of fruit in sirup in such a manner as to preserve its form, either whole, halved, or quartered; as, a compote of pears.

Compound (n.) In the East Indies, an inclosure containing a house, outbuildings, etc.

Compounded (imp. & p. p.) of Compound

Compounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compound

Compound (v. t.) To form or make by combining different elements, ingredients, or parts; as, to compound a medicine.

Compound (v. t.) To put together, as elements, ingredients, or parts, in order to form a whole; to combine, mix, or unite.

Compound (v. t.) To modify or change by combination with some other thing or part; to mingle with something else.

Compound (v. t.) To compose; to constitute.

Compound (v. t.) To settle amicably; to adjust by agreement; to compromise; to discharge from obligation upon terms different from those which were stipulated; as, to compound a debt.

Compound (v. i.) To effect a composition; to come to terms of agreement; to agree; to settle by a compromise; -- usually followed by with before the person participating, and for before the thing compounded or the consideration.

Compound (v. t.) Composed of two or more elements, ingredients, parts; produced by the union of several ingredients, parts, or things; composite; as, a compound word.

Compound (n.) That which is compounded or formed by the union or mixture of elements ingredients, or parts; a combination of simples; a compound word; the result of composition.

Compound (n.) A union of two or more ingredients in definite proportions by weight, so combined as to form a distinct substance; as, water is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen.

Compoundable (a.) That may be compounded.

Compounder (n.) One who, or that which, compounds or mixes; as, a compounder of medicines.

Compounder (n.) One who attempts to bring persons or parties to terms of agreement, or to accomplish, ends by compromises.

Compounder (n.) One who compounds a debt, obligation, or crime.

Compounder (n.) One at a university who pays extraordinary fees for the degree he is to take.

Compounder (n.) A Jacobite who favored the restoration of James II, on condition of a general amnesty and of guarantees for the security of the civil and ecclesiastical constitution of the realm.

Comprador (n.) A kind of steward or agent.

Comprecation (n.) A praying together.

Comprehended (imp. & p. p.) of Comprehend

Comprehending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comprehend

Comprehend (v. t.) To contain; to embrace; to include; as, the states comprehended in the Austrian Empire.

Comprehend (v. t.) To take in or include by construction or implication; to comprise; to imply.

Comprehend (v. t.) To take into the mind; to grasp with the understanding; to apprehend the meaning of; to understand.

Comprehensibility (n.) The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability of being understood.

Comprehensible (a.) Capable of being comprehended, included, or comprised.

Comprehensible (a.) Capable of being understood; intelligible; conceivable by the mind.

Comprehensibleness (n.) The quality of being comprehensible; comprehensibility.

Comprehensibly (adv.) With great extent of signification; comprehensively.

Comprehensibly (adv.) Intelligibly; in a manner to be comprehended or understood.

Comprehension (n.) The act of comprehending, containing, or comprising; inclusion.

Comprehension (n.) That which is comprehended or inclosed within narrow limits; a summary; an epitome.

Comprehension (n.) The capacity of the mind to perceive and understand; the power, act, or process of grasping with the intellect; perception; understanding; as, a comprehension of abstract principles.

Comprehension (n.) The complement of attributes which make up the notion signified by a general term.

Comprehension (n.) A figure by which the name of a whole is put for a part, or that of a part for a whole, or a definite number for an indefinite.

Comprehensive (a.) Including much; comprising many things; having a wide scope or a full view.

Comprehensive (a.) Having the power to comprehend or understand many things.

Comprehensive (a.) Possessing peculiarities that are characteristic of several diverse groups.

Comprehensively (adv.) In a comprehensive manner; with great extent of scope.

Comprehensiveness (n.) The quality of being comprehensive; extensiveness of scope.

Comprehensor (n.) One who comprehends; one who has attained to a full knowledge.

Compressed (imp. & p. p.) of Compress

Compressing (p. pr & vb. n.) of Compress

Compress (v. t.) To press or squeeze together; to force into a narrower compass; to reduce the volume of by pressure; to compact; to condense; as, to compress air or water.

Compress (v. t.) To embrace sexually.

Compress (n.) A folded piece of cloth, pledget of lint, etc., used to cover the dressing of wounds, and so placed as, by the aid of a bandage, to make due pressure on any part.

Compressed (a.) Pressed together; compacted; reduced in volume by pressure.

Compressed (a.) Flattened lengthwise.

Compressibility (n.) The quality of being compressible of being compressible; as, the compressibility of elastic fluids.

Compressible (a.) Capable of being pressed together or forced into a narrower compass, as an elastic or spongy substance.

Compressibleness (n.) The quality of being compressible; compressibility.

Compression (n.) The act of compressing, or state of being compressed.

Compressive (a.) Compressing, or having power or tendency to compress; as, a compressive force.

Compressor (n.) Anything which serves to compress

Compressor (n.) A muscle that compresses certain parts.

Compressor (n.) An instrument for compressing an artery (esp., the femoral artery) or other part.

Compressor (n.) An apparatus for confining or flattening between glass plates an object to be examined with the microscope; -- called also compressorium.

Compressor (n.) A machine for compressing gases; especially, an air compressor.

Compressure (n.) Compression.

Comprint (v. t. & i.) To print together.

Comprint (v. t. & i.) To print surreptitiously a work belonging to another.

Comprint (n.) The surreptitious printing of another's copy or book; a work thus printed.

Comprisal (n.) The act of comprising or comprehending; a compendium or epitome.

Comprised (imp. & p. p.) of Comprise

Comprising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comprise

Comprise (v. t.) To comprehend; to include.

Comprobate (v. i.) To agree; to concur.

Comprobation (n.) Joint attestation; proof.

Comprobation (n.) Approbation.

Compromise (n.) A mutual agreement to refer matters in dispute to the decision of arbitrators.

Compromise (n.) A settlement by arbitration or by mutual consent reached by concession on both sides; a reciprocal abatement of extreme demands or rights, resulting in an agreement.

Compromise (n.) A committal to something derogatory or objectionable; a prejudicial concession; a surrender; as, a compromise of character or right.

Compromised (imp. & p. p.) of Compromise

Compromising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compromise

Compromise (n.) To bind by mutual agreement; to agree.

Compromise (n.) To adjust and settle by mutual concessions; to compound.

Compromise (n.) To pledge by some act or declaration; to endanger the life, reputation, etc., of, by some act which can not be recalled; to expose to suspicion.

Compromise (v. i.) To agree; to accord.

Compromise (v. i.) To make concession for conciliation and peace.

Compromiser (n.) One who compromises.

Compromissorial (a.) Relating to compromise.

Compromitted (imp. & p. p.) of Compromit

Compromitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compromit

Compromit (n.) To pledge by some act or declaration; to promise.

Compromit (n.) To put to hazard, by some indiscretion; to endanger; to compromise; as, to compromit the honor or the safety of a nation.

Comprovincial (a.) Belonging to, or associated in, the same province.

Comprovincial (n.) One who belongs to the same province.

Compsognathus (n.) A genus of Dinosauria found in the Jurassic formation, and remarkable for having several birdlike features.

Compt (n.) Account; reckoning; computation.

Compt (v. t.) To compute; to count.

Compt (a.) Neat; spruce.

Compter (n.) A counter.

Compte rendu () A report of an officer or agent.

Comptible (v. t.) Accountable; responsible; sensitive.

Comptly (adv.) Neatly.

Comptrol (n. & v.) See Control.

Comptroler (n.) A controller; a public officer whose duty it is to examine certify accounts.

Compulsative (a.) Compulsatory.

Compulsatively (adv.) By compulsion.

Compulsatory (a.) Operating with force; compelling; forcing; constraining; resulting from, or enforced by, compulsion.

Compulsion (n.) The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the act of driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint; subjection to force.

Compulsive (a.) Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.

Compulsively (adv.) By compulsion; by force.

Compulsorily (adv.) In a compulsory manner; by force or constraint.

Compulsory (a.) Having the power of compulsion; constraining.

Compulsory (a.) Obligatory; enjoined by authority; necessary; due to compulsion.

Compunct (a.) Affected with compunction; conscience-stricken.

Compunction (n.) A pricking; stimulation.

Compunction (n.) A picking of heart; poignant grief proceeding from a sense of guilt or consciousness of causing pain; the sting of conscience.

Compunctionless (a.) Without compunction.

Compunctious (a.) Of the nature of compunction; caused by conscience; attended with, or causing, compunction.

Compunctiously (adv.) With compunction.

Compunctive (a.) Sensitive in respect of wrongdoing; conscientious.

Compurgation (v. t.) The act or practice of justifying or confirming a man's veracity by the oath of others; -- called also wager of law. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.

Compurgation (v. t.) Exculpation by testimony to one's veracity or innocence.

Compurgator (n.) One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocence of another. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.

Compurgatorial (a.) Relating to a compurgator or to compurgation.

Computable (a.) Capable of being computed, numbered, or reckoned.

Computation (n.) The act or process of computing; calculation; reckoning.

Computation (n.) The result of computation; the amount computed.

Computed (imp. & p. p.) of Compute

Computing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compute

Compute (v. t.) To determine calculation; to reckon; to count.

Compute (n.) Computation.

Computer (n.) One who computes.

Computist (n.) A computer.

Comrade (n.) A mate, companion, or associate.

Comradery (n.) The spirit of comradeship; comradeship.

Comradeship (n.) The state of being a comrade; intimate fellowship.

Comrogue (n.) A fellow rogue.

Comtism (n.) Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism.

Comtist (n.) A disciple of Comte; a positivist.

Con- () A prefix, fr. L. cum, signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.

Con (adv.) Against the affirmative side; in opposition; on the negative side; -- The antithesis of pro, and usually in connection with it. See Pro.

Conned (imp. & p. p.) of Con

Conning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Con

Con (v. t.) To know; to understand; to acknowledge.

Con (v. t.) To study in order to know; to peruse; to learn; to commit to memory; to regard studiously.

Con (v. t.) To conduct, or superintend the steering of (a vessel); to watch the course of (a vessel) and direct the helmsman how to steer.

Conacre (v. t.) To underlet a portion of, for a single crop; -- said of a farm.

Conacre (n.) A system of letting a portion of a farm for a single crop.

Conacre (n.) Also used adjectively; as, the conacre system or principle.

Conarium (n.) The pineal gland.

Conation (n.) The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind, whether muscular or psychical.

Conative (a.) Of or pertaining to conation.

Conatus (n.) A natural tendency inherent in a body to develop itself; an attempt; an effort.

Concamerate (v. t.) To arch over; to vault.

Concamerate (v. t.) To divide into chambers or cells.

Concameration (n.) An arch or vault.

Concameration (n.) A chamber of a multilocular shell.

Concatenated (imp. & p. p.) of Concatenate

Concatenating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concatenate

Concatenate (v. t.) To link together; to unite in a series or chain, as things depending on one another.

Concatenation (n.) A series of links united; a series or order of things depending on each other, as if linked together; a chain, a succession.

Concause (n.) A joint cause.

Concavation (n.) The act of making concave.

Concave (a.) Hollow and curved or rounded; vaulted; -- said of the interior of a curved surface or line, as of the curve of the of the inner surface of an eggshell, in opposition to convex; as, a concave mirror; the concave arch of the sky.

Concave (a.) Hollow; void of contents.

Concave (n.) A hollow; an arched vault; a cavity; a recess.

Concave (n.) A curved sheath or breasting for a revolving cylinder or roll.

Concaved (imp. & p. p.) of Concave

Concaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concave

Concave (v. t.) To make hollow or concave.

Concaved (a.) Bowed in the form of an arch; -- called also arched.

Concaveness (n.) Hollowness; concavity.

Concavities (pl. ) of Concavity

Concavity (n.) A concave surface, or the space bounded by it; the state of being concave.

Concavo-concave (a.) Concave or hollow on both sides; double concave.

Concavo-convex (a.) Concave on one side and convex on the other, as an eggshell or a crescent.

Concavo-convex (a.) Specifically, having such a combination of concave and convex sides as makes the focal axis the shortest line between them. See Illust. under Lens.

Concavous (a.) Concave.

Concealed (imp. & p. p.) of Conceal

Concealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conceal

Conceal (v. t.) To hide or withdraw from observation; to cover; to cover or keep from sight; to prevent the discovery of; to withhold knowledge of.

Concealable (a.) Capable of being concealed.

Concealed (a.) Hidden; kept from sight; secreted.

Concealer (n.) One who conceals.

Concealment (n.) The act of concealing; the state of being concealed.

Concealment (n.) A place of hiding; a secret place; a retreat frem observation.

Concealment (n.) A secret; out of the way knowledge.

Concealment (n.) Suppression of such facts and circumstances as in justice ought to be made known.

Conceded (imp. & p. p.) of Concede

Conceding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concede

Concede (v. t.) To yield or suffer; to surrender; to grant; as, to concede the point in question.

Concede (v. t.) To grant, as a right or privilege; to make concession of.

Concede (v. t.) To admit to be true; to acknowledge.

Concede (v. i.) To yield or make concession.

Conceit (n.) That which is conceived, imagined, or formed in the mind; idea; thought; image; conception.

Conceit (n.) Faculty of conceiving ideas; mental faculty; apprehension; as, a man of quick conceit.

Conceit (n.) Quickness of apprehension; active imagination; lively fancy.

Conceit (n.) A fanciful, odd, or extravagant notion; a quant fancy; an unnatural or affected conception; a witty thought or turn of expression; a fanciful device; a whim; a quip.

Conceit (n.) An overweening idea of one's self; vanity.

Conceit (n.) Design; pattern.

Conceit (v. t.) To conceive; to imagine.

Conceit (v. i.) To form an idea; to think.

Conceited (a.) Endowed with fancy or imagination.

Conceited (a.) Entertaining a flattering opinion of one's self; vain.

Conceited (a.) Curiously contrived or designed; fanciful.

Conceitedly (adv.) In an egotistical manner.

Conceitedly (adv.) Fancifully; whimsically.

Conceitedness (n.) The state of being conceited; conceit; vanity.

Conceitless (a.) Without wit; stupid.

Conceivable (a.) Capable of being conceived, imagined, or understood.

Conceived (imp. & p. p.) of Conceive

Conceiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conceive

Conceive (v. t.) To receive into the womb and begin to breed; to begin the formation of the embryo of.

Conceive (v. t.) To form in the mind; to plan; to devise; to generate; to originate; as, to conceive a purpose, plan, hope.

Conceive (v. t.) To apprehend by reason or imagination; to take into the mind; to know; to imagine; to comprehend; to understand.

Conceive (v. i.) To have an embryo or fetus formed in the womb; to breed; to become pregnant.

Conceive (v. i.) To have a conception, idea, or opinion; think; -- with of.

Conceiver (n.) One who conceives.

Concelebrate (v. t.) To celebrate together.

Concent (n.) Concert of voices; concord of sounds; harmony; as, a concent of notes.

Concent (n.) Consistency; accordance.

Concentered (imp. & p. p.) of Concentre

Concentred () of Concentre

Concentering (p. pr & vb. n.) of Concentre

Concentring () of Concentre

Concenter (v. i.) Alt. of Concentre

Concentre (v. i.) To come to one point; to meet in, or converge toward, a common center; to have a common center.

Concenter (v. t.) Alt. of Concentre

Concentre (v. t.) To draw or direct to a common center; to bring together at a focus or point, as two or more lines; to concentrate.

Concentrated (imp. & p. p.) of Concentrate

Concentrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concentrate

Concentrate (v. t.) To bring to, or direct toward, a common center; to unite more closely; to gather into one body, mass, or force; to fix; as, to concentrate rays of light into a focus; to concentrate the attention.

Concentrate (v. t.) To increase the strength and diminish the bulk of, as of a liquid or an ore; to intensify, by getting rid of useless material; to condense; as, to concentrate acid by evaporation; to concentrate by washing; -- opposed to dilute.

Concentrate (v. i.) To approach or meet in a common center; to consolidate; as, population tends to concentrate in cities.

Concentration (n.) The act or process of concentrating; the process of becoming concentrated, or the state of being concentrated; concentration.

Concentration (n.) The act or process of reducing the volume of a liquid, as by evaporation.

Concentration (n.) The act or process of removing the dress of ore and of reducing the valuable part to smaller compass, as by currents of air or water.

Concentrative (a.) Serving or tending to concentrate; characterized by concentration.

Concentrativeness (n.) The quality of concentrating.

Concentrativeness (n.) The faculty or propensity which has to do with concentrating the intellectual the intellectual powers.

Concentrator (n.) An apparatus for the separation of dry comminuted ore, by exposing it to intermittent puffs of air.

Concentric (a.) Alt. of Concentrical

Concentrical (a.) Having a common center, as circles of different size, one within another.

Concentric (n.) That which has a common center with something else.

Concentrically (adv.) In a concentric manner.

Concentricity (n.) The state of being concentric.

Concentual (a.) Possessing harmony; accordant.

Concept (n.) An abstract general conception; a notion; a universal.

Conceptacle (n.) That in which anything is contained; a vessel; a receiver or receptacle.

Conceptacle (n.) A pericarp, opening longitudinally on one side and having the seeds loose in it; a follicle; a double follicle or pair of follicles.

Conceptacle (n.) One of the cases containing the spores, etc., of flowerless plants, especially of algae.

Conceptibility (n.) The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness.

Conceptible (a.) Capable of being conceived; conceivable.

Conception (n.) The act of conceiving in the womb; the initiation of an embryonic animal life.

Conception (n.) The state of being conceived; beginning.

Conception (n.) The power or faculty of apprehending of forming an idea in the mind; the power of recalling a past sensation or perception.

Conception (n.) The formation in the mind of an image, idea, or notion, apprehension.

Conception (n.) The image, idea, or notion of any action or thing which is formed in the mind; a concept; a notion; a universal; the product of a rational belief or judgment. See Concept.

Conception (n.) Idea; purpose; design.

Conception (n.) Conceit; affected sentiment or thought.

Conceptional (a.) Pertaining to conception.

Conceptionalist (n.) A conceptualist.

Conceptious (a.) Apt to conceive; fruitful.

Conceptive (a.) Capable of conceiving.

Conceptual (a.) Pertaining to conception.

Conceptualism (n.) A theory, intermediate between realism and nominalism, that the mind has the power of forming for itself general conceptions of individual or single objects.

Conceptualist (n.) One who maintains the theory of conceptualism.

Concerned (imp. & p. p.) of Concern

Concerning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concern

Concern (v. t.) To relate or belong to; to have reference to or connection with; to affect the interest of; to be of importance to.

Concern (v. t.) To engage by feeling or sentiment; to interest; as, a good prince concerns himself in the happiness of his subjects.

Concern (v. i.) To be of importance.

Concern (n.) That which relates or belongs to one; business; affair.

Concern (n.) That which affects the welfare or happiness; interest; moment.

Concern (n.) Interest in, or care for, any person or thing; regard; solicitude; anxiety.

Concern (n.) Persons connected in business; a firm and its business; as, a banking concern.

Concerned (v. t.) Disturbed; troubled; solicitous; as, to be much concerned for the safety of a friend.

Concernedly (adv.) In a concerned manner; solicitously; sympathetically.

Concerning (prep.) Pertaining to; regarding; having relation to; respecting; as regards.

Concerning (a.) Important.

Concerning (n.) That in which one is concerned or interested; concern; affair; interest.

Concerning (n.) Importance; moment; consequence.

Concerning (n.) Concern; participation; interposition.

Concerning (n.) Emotion of mind; solicitude; anxiety.

Concerted (imp. & p. p.) of Concert

Concerting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concert

Concert (v. t.) To plan together; to settle or adjust by conference, agreement, or consultation.

Concert (v. t.) To plan; to devise; to arrange.

Concert (v. i.) To act in harmony or conjunction; to form combined plans.

Concert (v. t.) Agreement in a design or plan; union formed by mutual communication of opinions and views; accordance in a scheme; harmony; simultaneous action.

Concert (v. t.) Musical accordance or harmony; concord.

Concert (v. t.) A musical entertainment in which several voices or instruments take part.

Concertante (n.) A concert for two or more principal instruments, with orchestral accompaniment. Also adjectively; as, concertante parts.

Concertation (n.) Strife; contention.

Concertative (a.) Contentious; quarrelsome.

Concerted (a.) Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on; as, concerted schemes, signals.

Concertina (n.) A small musical instrument on the principle of the accordion. It is a small elastic box, or bellows, having free reeds on the inside, and keys and handles on the outside of each of the two hexagonal heads.

Concertino (n.) A piece for one or more solo instruments with orchestra; -- more concise than the concerto.

Concertion (n.) Act of concerting; adjustment.

Concertmeister (n.) The head violinist or leader of the strings in an orchestra; the sub-leader of the orchestra; concert master.

Concertos (pl. ) of Concerto

Concerto (n.) A composition (usually in symphonic form with three movements) in which one instrument (or two or three) stands out in bold relief against the orchestra, or accompaniment, so as to display its qualities or the performer's skill.

Concession (n.) The act of conceding or yielding; usually implying a demand, claim, or request, and thus distinguished from giving, which is voluntary or spontaneous.

Concession (n.) A thing yielded; an acknowledgment or admission; a boon; a grant; esp. a grant by government of a privilege or right to do something; as, a concession to build a canal.

Concessionist (n.) One who favors concession.

Concessive (a.) Implying concession; as, a concessive conjunction.

Concessively (adv.) By way of concession.

Concessory (a.) Conceding; permissive.

Concettism (n.) The use of concetti or affected conceits.

Concetti (pl. ) of Concetto

Concetto (n.) Affected wit; a conceit.

Conch (n.) A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to those of the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the large pink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs are of the genus Cassis. See Cameo.

Conch (n.) In works of art, the shell used by Tritons as a trumpet.

Conch (n.) One of the white natives of the Bahama Islands or one of their descendants in the Florida Keys; -- so called from the commonness of the conch there, or because they use it for food.

Conch (n.) See Concha, n.

Conch (n.) The external ear. See Concha, n., 2.

Concha (n.) The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entire apse.

Concha (n.) The external ear; esp. the largest and deepest concavity of the external ear, surrounding the entrance to the auditory canal.

Conchal (a.) Pertaining to the concha, or external ear; as, the conchal cartilage.

Conchifer (n.) One of the Conchifera.

Conchifera (n. pl.) That class of Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells; the Lamellibranchiata. See Mollusca.

Conchiferous (a.) Producing or having shells.

Conchiform (a.) Shaped like one half of a bivalve shell; shell-shaped.

Conchinine (n.) See Quinidine.

Conchite (n.) A fossil or petrified conch or shell.

Conchitic (a.) Composed of shells; containing many shells.

Conchoid (n.) A curve, of the fourth degree, first made use of by the Greek geometer, Nicomedes, who invented it for the purpose of trisecting an angle and duplicating the cube.

Conchoidal (a.) Having elevations or depressions in form like one half of a bivalve shell; -- applied principally to a surface produced by fracture.

Conchological (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, conchology.

Conchologist (n.) One who studies, or is versed in, conchology.

Conchology (n.) The science of Mollusca, and of the shells which they form; malacology.

Conchometer (n.) An instrument for measuring shells, or the angle of their spire.

Conchometry (n.) The art of measuring shells or their curves; conchyliometry.

Concho-spiral (n.) A kind of spiral curve found in certain univalve shells.

Conchylaceous (a.) Alt. of Conchyliaceous

Conchyliaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to shells; resembling a shell; as, conchyliaceous impressions.

Conchyliologist (n.) Alt. of Conchyliology

Conchyliology (n.) See Conchologist, and Conchology.

Conchyliometry (n.) Same as Conchometry.

Conchylious (a.) Conchylaceous.

Conciator (a.) The person who weighs and proportions the materials to be made into glass, and who works and tempers them.

Concierge (n.) One who keeps the entrance to an edifice, public or private; a doorkeeper; a janitor, male or female.

Conciliable (n.) A small or private assembly, especially of an ecclesiastical nature.

Conciliable (a.) Capable of being conciliated or reconciled.

Conciliabule (n.) An obscure ecclesiastical council; a conciliable.

Conciliar (a.) Alt. of Conciliary

Conciliary (a.) Of or pertaining to, or issued by, a council.

Conciliated (imp. & p. p.) of Conciliate

Conciliating (p. pr & vb. n.) of Conciliate

Conciliate (v. t.) To win ower; to gain from a state of hostility; to gain the good will or favor of; to make friendly; to mollify; to propitiate; to appease.

Conciliation (n.) The act or process of conciliating; the state of being conciliated.

Conciliative (a.) Conciliatory.

Conciliator (n.) One who conciliates.

Conciliatory (a.) Tending to conciliate; pacific; mollifying; propitiating.

Concinnate (v. t.) To place fitly together; to adapt; to clear.

Concinnity (n.) Internal harmony or fitness; mutual adaptation of parts; elegance; -- used chiefly of style of discourse.

Concinnous (a.) Characterized by concinnity; neat; elegant.

Concionate (v. i.) To preach.

Concionator (n.) An haranguer of the people; a preacher.

Concionator (n.) A common councilman.

Concionatory (a.) Of or pertaining to preaching or public addresses.

Concise (a.) Expressing much in a few words; condensed; brief and compacted; -- used of style in writing or speaking.

Concisely (adv.) In a concise manner; briefly.

Conciseness (n.) The quality of being concise.

Concision (n.) A cutting off; a division; a schism; a faction.

Concitation (n.) The act of stirring up, exciting, or agitating.

Concite (v. t.) To excite or stir up.

Conclamation (n.) An outcry or shout of many together.

Conclave (n.) The set of apartments within which the cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church are continuously secluded while engaged in choosing a pope.

Conclave (n.) The body of cardinals shut up in the conclave for the election of a pope; hence, the body of cardinals.

Conclave (n.) A private meeting; a close or secret assembly.

Conclavist (n.) One of the two ecclesiastics allowed to attend a cardinal in the conclave.

Concluded (imp. & p. p.) of Conclude

Concluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conclude

Conclude (v. t.) To shut up; to inclose.

Conclude (v. t.) To include; to comprehend; to shut up together; to embrace.

Conclude (v. t.) To reach as an end of reasoning; to infer, as from premises; to close, as an argument, by inferring; -- sometimes followed by a dependent clause.

Conclude (v. t.) To make a final determination or judgment concerning; to judge; to decide.

Conclude (v. t.) To bring to an end; to close; to finish.

Conclude (v. t.) To bring about as a result; to effect; to make; as, to conclude a bargain.

Conclude (v. t.) To shut off; to restrain; to limit; to estop; to bar; -- generally in the passive; as, the defendant is concluded by his own plea; a judgment concludes the introduction of further evidence argument.

Conclude (v. i.) To come to a termination; to make an end; to close; to end; to terminate.

Conclude (v. i.) To form a final judgment; to reach a decision.

Concludency (n.) Deduction from premises; inference; conclusion.

Concludent (a.) Bringing to a close; decisive; conclusive.

Concluder (n.) One who concludes.

Concludingly (adv.) Conclusively.

Conclusible (a.) Demonstrable; determinable.

Conclusion (n.) The last part of anything; close; termination; end.

Conclusion (n.) Final decision; determination; result.

Conclusion (n.) Any inference or result of reasoning.

Conclusion (n.) The inferred proposition of a syllogism; the necessary consequence of the conditions asserted in two related propositions called premises. See Syllogism.

Conclusion (n.) Drawing of inferences.

Conclusion (n.) An experiment, or something from which a conclusion may be drawn.

Conclusion (n.) The end or close of a pleading, e.g., the formal ending of an indictment, against the peace, etc.

Conclusion (n.) An estoppel or bar by which a person is held to a particular position.

Conclusive (a.) Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing; putting an end to debate or question; leading to, or involving, a conclusion or decision.

Conclusively (adv.) In the way of conclusion; decisively; positively.

Conclusiveness (n.) The quality of being conclusive; decisiveness.

Conclusory (a.) Conclusive.

Concocted (imp. & p. p.) of Concoct

Concocting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concoct

Concoct (v. t.) To digest; to convert into nourishment by the organs of nutrition.

Concoct (v. t.) To purify or refine chemically.

Concoct (v. t.) To prepare from crude materials, as food; to invent or prepare by combining different ingredients; as, to concoct a new dish or beverage.

Concoct (v. t.) To digest in the mind; to devise; to make up; to contrive; to plan; to plot.

Concoct (v. t.) To mature or perfect; to ripen.

Concocter (n.) One who concocts.

Concoction (n.) A change in food produced by the organs of nutrition; digestion.

Concoction (n.) The act of concocting or preparing by combining different ingredients; also, the food or compound thus prepared.

Concoction (n.) The act of digesting in the mind; planning or devising; rumination.

Concoction (n.) Abatement of a morbid process, as a fever and return to a normal condition.

Concoction (n.) The act of perfecting or maturing.

Concoctive (a.) Having the power of digesting or ripening; digestive.

Concolor (a.) Of the same color; of uniform color.

Concolorous (a.) Of the same color throughout.

Concomitance (n.) Alt. of Concomitancy

Concomitancy (n.) The state of accompanying; accompaniment.

Concomitancy (n.) The doctrine of the existence of the entire body of Christ in the eucharist, under each element, so that the body and blood are both received by communicating in one kind only.

Concomitant (a.) Accompanying; conjoined; attending.

Concomitant (n.) One who, or that which, accompanies, or is collaterally connected with another; a companion; an associate; an accompaniment.

Concomitantly (adv.) In company with others; unitedly; concurrently.

Concord (n.) A state of agreement; harmony; union.

Concord (n.) Agreement by stipulation; compact; covenant; treaty or league.

Concord (n.) Agreement of words with one another, in gender, number, person, or case.

Concord (n.) An agreement between the parties to a fine of land in reference to the manner in which it should pass, being an acknowledgment that the land in question belonged to the complainant. See Fine.

Concord (n.) An agreeable combination of tones simultaneously heard; a consonant chord; consonance; harmony.

Concord (n.) A variety of American grape, with large dark blue (almost black) grapes in compact clusters.

Concord (v. i.) To agree; to act together.

Concordable (a.) Capable of according; agreeing; harmonious.

Concordance (n.) Agreement; accordance.

Concordance (n.) Concord; agreement.

Concordance (n.) An alphabetical verbal index showing the places in the text of a book where each principal word may be found, with its immediate context in each place.

Concordance (n.) A topical index or orderly analysis of the contents of a book.

Concordancy (n.) Agreement.

Concordant (a.) Agreeing; correspondent; harmonious; consonant.

Concordantly (adv.) In a concordant manner.

Concordat (n.) A compact, covenant, or agreement concerning anything.

Concordat (n.) An agreement made between the pope and a sovereign or government for the regulation of ecclesiastical matters with which both are concerned; as, the concordat between Pope Pius VII and Bonaparte in 1801.

Concordist (n.) The compiler of a concordance.

Concorporate (v. t. & i.) To unite in one mass or body; to incorporate.

Concorporate (a.) United in one body; incorporated.

Concorporation (n.) Union of things in one mass or body.

Concourse (n.) A moving, flowing, or running together; confluence.

Concourse (n.) An assembly; a gathering formed by a voluntary or spontaneous moving and meeting in one place.

Concourse (n.) The place or point of meeting or junction of two bodies.

Concourse (n.) An open space where several roads or paths meet; esp. an open space in a park where several roads meet.

Concourse (n.) Concurrence; cooperation.

Concreate (v. t.) To create at the same time.

Concremation (n.) The act of burning different things together.

Concrement (n.) A growing together; the collection or mass formed by concretion, or natural union.

Concrescence (n.) Coalescence of particles; growth; increase by the addition of particles.

Concrescible (a.) Capable of being changed from a liquid to a solid state.

Concrescive (a.) Growing together, or into union; uniting.

Concrete (a.) United in growth; hence, formed by coalition of separate particles into one mass; united in a solid form.

Concrete (a.) Standing for an object as it exists in nature, invested with all its qualities, as distinguished from standing for an attribute of an object; -- opposed to abstract.

Concrete (a.) Applied to a specific object; special; particular; -- opposed to general. See Abstract, 3.

Concrete (n.) A compound or mass formed by concretion, spontaneous union, or coalescence of separate particles of matter in one body.

Concrete (n.) A mixture of gravel, pebbles, or broken stone with cement or with tar, etc., used for sidewalks, roadways, foundations, etc., and esp. for submarine structures.

Concrete (n.) A term designating both a quality and the subject in which it exists; a concrete term.

Concrete (n.) Sugar boiled down from cane juice to a solid mass.

Concreted (imp. & p. p.) of Concrete

Concreting (p. pr & vb. n.) of Concrete

Concrete (v. i.) To unite or coalesce, as separate particles, into a mass or solid body.

Concrete (v. t.) To form into a mass, as by the cohesion or coalescence of separate particles.

Concrete (v. t.) To cover with, or form of, concrete, as a pavement.

Concretely (adv.) In a concrete manner.

Concreteness (n.) The quality of being concrete.

Concretion (n.) The process of concreting; the process of uniting or of becoming united, as particles of matter into a mass; solidification.

Concretion (n.) A mass or nodule of solid matter formed by growing together, by congelation, condensation, coagulation, induration, etc.; a clot; a lump; a calculus.

Concretion (n.) A rounded mass or nodule produced by an aggregation of the material around a center; as, the calcareous concretions common in beds of clay.

Concretional (a.) Concretionary.

Concretionary (a.) Pertaining to, or formed by, concretion or aggregation; producing or containing concretions.

Concretive (a.) Promoting concretion.

Concretively (adv.) In a concrete manner.

Concreture (n.) A mass formed by concretion.

Concrew (a.) To grow together.

Concrimination (n.) A joint accusation.

Concubinacy (n.) The practice of concubinage.

Concubinage (n.) The cohabiting of a man and a woman who are not legally married; the state of being a concubine.

Concubinage (n.) A plea, in which it is alleged that the woman suing for dower was not lawfully married to the man in whose lands she seeks to be endowed, but that she was his concubine.

Concubinal (a.) Of or pertaining to concubinage.

Concubinarian (a. & n.) Concubinary.

Concubinary (a.) Relating to concubinage; living in concubinage.

Concubinaries (pl. ) of Concubinary

Concubinary (n.) One who lives in concubinage.

Concubinate (n.) Concubinage.

Concubine (n.) A woman who cohabits with a man without being his wife; a paramour.

Concubine (n.) A wife of inferior condition; a lawful wife, but not united to the man by the usual ceremonies, and of inferior condition. Such were Hagar and Keturah, the concubines of Abraham; and such concubines were allowed by the Roman laws. Their children were not heirs of their father.

Concultated (imp. & p. p.) of Conculcate

Conculcating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conculcate

Conculcate (v. t.) To tread or trample under foot.

Concupiscence (n.) Sexual lust; morbid carnal passion.

Concupiscent (a.) Having sexual lust; libidinous; lustful; lecherous; salacious.

Concupiscential (a.) Relating to concupiscence.

Concupiscentious (a.) Concupiscent.

Concupiscible (a.) Exciting to, or liable to be affected by, concupiscence; provoking lustful desires.

Concupiscible (a.) Exciting desire, good or evil.

Concupiscibleness (n.) The state of being concupiscible.

Concupy (n.) Concupiscence. [Used only in Troilus and Cressida]

Concurred (imp. & p. p.) of Concur

Concurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concur

Concur (v. i.) To run together; to meet.

Concur (v. i.) To meet in the same point; to combine or conjoin; to contribute or help toward a common object or effect.

Concur (v. i.) To unite or agree (in action or opinion); to join; to act jointly; to agree; to coincide; to correspond.

Concur (v. i.) To assent; to consent.

Concurrence (n.) The act of concurring; a meeting or coming together; union; conjunction; combination.

Concurrence (n.) A meeting of minds; agreement in opinion; union in design or act; -- implying joint approbation.

Concurrence (n.) Agreement or consent, implying aid or contribution of power or influence; cooperation.

Concurrence (n.) A common right; coincidence of equal powers; as, a concurrence of jurisdiction in two different courts.

Concurrency (n.) Concurrence.

Concurrent (a.) Acting in conjunction; agreeing in the same act or opinion; contributing to the same event or effect; cooperating.

Concurrent (a.) Conjoined; associate; concomitant; existing or happening at the same time.

Concurrent (a.) Joint and equal in authority; taking cognizance of similar questions; operating on the same objects; as, the concurrent jurisdiction of courts.

Concurrent (a.) Meeting in one point.

Concurrent (n.) One who, or that which, concurs; a joint or contributory cause.

Concurrent (n.) One pursuing the same course, or seeking the same objects; hence, a rival; an opponent.

Concurrent (n.) One of the supernumerary days of the year over fifty-two complete weeks; -- so called because they concur with the solar cycle, the course of which they follow.

Concurrently (adv.) With concurrence; unitedly.

Concurrentness (n.) The state or quality of being concurrent; concurrence.

Concurring (a.) Agreeing.

Concuss (v. t.) To shake or agitate.

Concuss (v. t.) To force (a person) to do something, or give up something, by intimidation; to coerce.

Concussation (n.) A violent shock or agitation.

Concussion (n.) A shaking or agitation; a shock; caused by the collision of two bodies.

Concussion (n.) A condition of lowered functional activity, without visible structural change, produced in an organ by a shock, as by fall or blow; as, a concussion of the brain.

Concussion (n.) The unlawful forcing of another by threats of violence to yield up something of value.

Concussive (a.) Having the power or quality of shaking or agitating.

Cond (v. t.) To con, as a ship.

Condemned (imp. & p. p.) of Condemn

Condemning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condemn

Condemn (v. t.) To pronounce to be wrong; to disapprove of; to censure.

Condemn (v. t.) To declare the guilt of; to make manifest the faults or unworthiness of; to convict of guilt.

Condemn (v. t.) To pronounce a judicial sentence against; to sentence to punishment, suffering, or loss; to doom; -- with to before the penalty.

Condemn (v. t.) To amerce or fine; -- with in before the penalty.

Condemn (v. t.) To adjudge or pronounce to be unfit for use or service; to adjudge or pronounce to be forfeited; as, the ship and her cargo were condemned.

Condemn (v. t.) To doom to be taken for public use, under the right of eminent domain.

Condemnable () Worthy of condemnation; blamable; culpable.

Condemnation (n.) The act of condemning or pronouncing to be wrong; censure; blame; disapprobation.

Condemnation (n.) The act of judicially condemning, or adjudging guilty, unfit for use, or forfeited; the act of dooming to punishment or forfeiture.

Condemnation (n.) The state of being condemned.

Condemnation (n.) The ground or reason of condemning.

Condemnatory (a.) Condemning; containing or imposing condemnation or censure; as, a condemnatory sentence or decree.

Condemned (a.) Pronounced to be wrong, guilty, worthless, or forfeited; adjudged or sentenced to punishment, destruction, or confiscation.

Condemned (a.) Used for condemned persons.

Condemner (n.) One who condemns or censures.

Condensability (n.) Capability of being condensed.

Condensable (a.) Capable of being condensed; as, vapor is condensable.

Condensate (v. t.) Made dense; condensed.

Condensated (imp. & p. p.) of Condensate

Condensating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condensate

Condensate (v. t.) To condense.

Condensation (n.) The act or process of condensing or of being condensed; the state of being condensed.

Condensation (n.) The act or process of reducing, by depression of temperature or increase of pressure, etc., to another and denser form, as gas to the condition of a liquid or steam to water.

Condensation (n.) A rearrangement or concentration of the different constituents of one or more substances into a distinct and definite compound of greater complexity and molecular weight, often resulting in an increase of density, as the condensation of oxygen into ozone, or of acetone into mesitylene.

Condensative (a.) Having the property of condensing.

Condensed (imp. & p. p.) of Condense

Condensing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condense

Condense (v. t.) To make more close, compact, or dense; to compress or concentrate into a smaller compass; to consolidate; to abridge; to epitomize.

Condense (v. t.) To reduce into another and denser form, as by cold or pressure; as, to condense gas into a liquid form, or steam into water.

Condense (v. i.) To become more compact; to be reduced into a denser form.

Condense (v. i.) To combine or unite (as two chemical substances) with or without separation of some unimportant side products.

Condense (v. i.) To undergo polymerization.

Condense (a.) Condensed; compact; dense.

Condenser (n.) One who, or that which, condenses.

Condenser (n.) An instrument for condensing air or other elastic fluids, consisting of a cylinder having a movable piston to force the air into a receiver, and a valve to prevent its escape.

Condenser (n.) An instrument for concentrating electricity by the effect of induction between conducting plates separated by a nonconducting plate.

Condenser (n.) A lens or mirror, usually of short focal distance, used to concentrate light upon an object.

Condenser (n.) An apparatus for receiving and condensing the volatile products of distillation to a liquid or solid form, by cooling.

Condenser (n.) An apparatus, separate from the cylinder, in which the exhaust steam is condensed by the action of cold water or air. See Illust. of Steam engine.

Condensible (a.) Capable of being condensed; as, a gas condensible to a liquid by cold.

Conder (n.) One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker.

Condescended (imp. & p. p.) of Condescend

Condescending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condescend

Condescend (v. i.) To stoop or descend; to let one's self down; to submit; to waive the privilege of rank or dignity; to accommodate one's self to an inferior.

Condescend (v. i.) To consent.

Condescendence (n.) Alt. of Condescendency

Condescendency (n.) Condescension.

Condescendingly (adv.) In a condescending manner.

Condescension (n.) The act of condescending; voluntary descent from one's rank or dignity in intercourse with an inferior; courtesy toward inferiors.

Condescent (n.) An act of condescension.

Condign (a.) Worthy; suitable; deserving; fit.

Condign (a.) Deserved; adequate; suitable to the fault or crime.

Condignity (n.) Merit, acquired by works, which can claim reward on the score of general benevolence.

Condignly (adv.) According to merit.

Condignness (n.) Agreeableness to deserts; suitableness.

Condiment (n.) Something used to give relish to food, and to gratify the taste; a pungment and appetizing substance, as pepper or mustard; seasoning.

Condisciple (n.) A schoolfellow; a fellow-student.

Condite (a.) Preserved; pickled.

Condite (v. t.) To pickle; to preserve; as, to condite pears, quinces, etc.

Condition (n.) Mode or state of being; state or situation with regard to external circumstances or influences, or to physical or mental integrity, health, strength, etc.; predicament; rank; position, estate.

Condition (n.) Essential quality; property; attribute.

Condition (n.) Temperament; disposition; character.

Condition (n.) That which must exist as the occasion or concomitant of something else; that which is requisite in order that something else should take effect; an essential qualification; stipulation; terms specified.

Condition (n.) A clause in a contract, or agreement, which has for its object to suspend, to defeat, or in some way to modify, the principal obligation; or, in case of a will, to suspend, revoke, or modify a devise or bequest. It is also the case of a future uncertain event, which may or may not happen, and on the occurrence or non-occurrence of which, the accomplishment, recission, or modification of an obligation or testamentary disposition is made to depend.

Conditioned (imp. & p. p.) of Condition

Conditioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condition

Condition (v. i.) To make terms; to stipulate.

Condition (v. i.) To impose upon an object those relations or conditions without which knowledge and thought are alleged to be impossible.

Condition (n.) To invest with, or limit by, conditions; to burden or qualify by a condition; to impose or be imposed as the condition of.

Condition (n.) To contract; to stipulate; to agree.

Condition (n.) To put under conditions; to require to pass a new examination or to make up a specified study, as a condition of remaining in one's class or in college; as, to condition a student who has failed in some branch of study.

Condition (n.) To test or assay, as silk (to ascertain the proportion of moisture it contains).

Condition (n.) train; acclimate.

Conditional (a.) Containing, implying, or depending on, a condition or conditions; not absolute; made or granted on certain terms; as, a conditional promise.

Conditional (a.) Expressing a condition or supposition; as, a conditional word, mode, or tense.

Conditional (n.) A limitation.

Conditional (n.) A conditional word, mode, or proposition.

Conditionality (n.) The quality of being conditional, or limited; limitation by certain terms.

Conditionally (adv.) In a conditional manner; subject to a condition or conditions; not absolutely or positively.

Conditionate (v. t.) Conditional.

Conditionate (v. t.) To qualify by conditions; to regulate.

Conditionate (v. t.) To put under conditions; to render conditional.

Conditioned (a.) Surrounded; circumstanced; in a certain state or condition, as of property or health; as, a well conditioned man.

Conditioned (a.) Having, or known under or by, conditions or relations; not independent; not absolute.

Conditionly (adv.) Conditionally.

Conditories (pl. ) of Conditory

Conditory (n.) A repository for holding things; a hinding place.

Condog (v. i.) To concur; to agree.

Condolatory (a.) Expressing condolence.

Condoled (imp. & p. p.) of Condole

Condoling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condole

Condole (v. i.) To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; -- followed by with.

Condole (v. t.) To lament or grieve over.

Condolement (n.) Condolence.

Condolement (n.) Sorrow; mourning; lamentation.

Condolence (n.) Expression of sympathy with another in sorrow or grief.

Condoler (n.) One who condoles.

Condonation (n.) The act of condoning or pardoning.

Condonation (n.) Forgiveness, either express or implied, by a husband of his wife or by a wife of her husband, for a breach of marital duty, as adultery, with an implied condition that the offense shall not be repeated.

Condoned (imp. & p. p.) of Condone

Condoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condone

Condone (v. t.) To pardon; to forgive.

Condone (v. t.) To pardon; to overlook the offense of; esp., to forgive for a violation of the marriage law; -- said of either the husband or the wife.

Condor (n.) A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphus gryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes.

Condottieri (pl. ) of Condottiere

Condottiere (n.) A military adventurer of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, who sold his services, and those of his followers, to any party in any contest.

Conduced (imp. & p. p.) of Conduce

Conducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conduce

Conduce (n.) To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable or desirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward.

Conduce (v. t.) To conduct; to lead; to guide.

Conducent (a.) Conducive; tending.

Conducibility (n.) The state or quality of being conducible; conducibleness.

Conducible (a.) Conducive; tending; contributing.

Conducibleness (n.) Quality of being conducible.

Conducibly (adv.) In a manner to promote.

Conducive (a.) Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote.

Conduciveness (n.) The quality of conducing.

Conduct (n.) The act or method of conducting; guidance; management.

Conduct (n.) Skillful guidance or management; generalship.

Conduct (n.) Convoy; escort; guard; guide.

Conduct (n.) That which carries or conveys anything; a channel; a conduit; an instrument.

Conduct (n.) The manner of guiding or carrying one's self; personal deportment; mode of action; behavior.

Conduct (n.) Plot; action; construction; manner of development.

Conducted (imp. & p. p.) of Conduct

Conducting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conduct

Conduct (n.) To lead, or guide; to escort; to attend.

Conduct (n.) To lead, as a commander; to direct; to manage; to carry on; as, to conduct the affairs of a kingdom.

Conduct (n.) To behave; -- with the reflexive; as, he conducted himself well.

Conduct (n.) To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat, light, electricity, etc.

Conduct (n.) To direct, as the leader in the performance of a musical composition.

Conduct (v. i.) To act as a conductor (as of heat, electricity, etc.); to carry.

Conduct (v. i.) To conduct one's self; to behave.

Conductibility (n.) Capability of being conducted; as, the conductibility of heat or electricity.

Conductibility (n.) Conductivity; capacity for receiving and transmitting.

Conductible (a.) Capable of being conducted.

Conduction (n.) The act of leading or guiding.

Conduction (n.) The act of training up.

Conduction (n.) Transmission through, or by means of, a conductor; also, conductivity.

Conductive (a.) Having the quality or power of conducting; as, the conductive tissue of a pistil.

Conductivity (n.) The quality or power of conducting, or of receiving and transmitting, as heat, electricity, etc.; as, the conductivity of a nerve.

Conductor (n.) One who, or that which, conducts; a leader; a commander; a guide; a manager; a director.

Conductor (n.) One in charge of a public conveyance, as of a railroad train or a street car.

Conductor (n.) The leader or director of an orchestra or chorus.

Conductor (n.) A substance or body capable of being a medium for the transmission of certain forces, esp. heat or electricity; specifically, a lightning rod.

Conductor (n.) A grooved sound or staff used for directing instruments, as lithontriptic forceps, etc.; a director.

Conductor (n.) Same as Leader.

Conductory (a.) Having the property of conducting.

Conductress (n.) A woman who leads or directs; a directress.

Conduit (n.) A pipe, canal, channel, or passage for conveying water or fluid.

Conduit (n.) A structure forming a reservoir for water.

Conduit (n.) A narrow passage for private communication.

Conduplicate (a.) Folded lengthwise along the midrib, the upper face being within; -- said of leaves or petals in vernation or aestivation.

Conduplication (n.) A doubling together or folding; a duplication.

Condurango (n.) See Cundurango.

Condurrite (n.) A variety of the mineral domeykite, or copper arsenide, from the Condurra mine in Cornwall, England.

Condylar (a.) Of or pertaining to a condyle.

Condyle (n.) A bony prominence; particularly, an eminence at the end of a bone bearing a rounded articular surface; -- sometimes applied also to a concave articular surface.

Condyloid (a.) Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.

Condylomata (pl. ) of Condylome

Condylomes (pl. ) of Condylome

Condyloma (n.) Alt. of Condylome

Condylome (n.) A wartlike new growth on the outer skin or adjoining mucous membrane.

Condylopod (n.) An arthropod.

Cone (n.) A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; -- called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having a vertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by a straight line always passing through that vertical point; a solid having a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex.

Cone (n.) Anything shaped more or less like a mathematical cone; as, a volcanic cone, a collection of scoriae around the crater of a volcano, usually heaped up in a conical form.

Cone (n.) The fruit or strobile of the Coniferae, as of the pine, fir, cedar, and cypress. It is composed of woody scales, each one of which has one or two seeds at its base.

Cone (n.) A shell of the genus Conus, having a conical form.

Cone (v. t.) To render cone-shaped; to bevel like the circular segment of a cone; as, to cone the tires of car wheels.

Cone-in-cone (a.) Consisting of a series of parallel cones, each made up of many concentric cones closely packed together; -- said of a kind of structure sometimes observed in sedimentary rocks.

Coneine (n.) See Conine.

Conepate (n.) Alt. of Conepatl

Conepatl (n.) The skunk.

Cone pulley () A pulley for driving machines, etc., having two or more parts or steps of different diameters; a pulley having a conical shape.

Coney (n.) A rabbit. See Cony.

Coney (n.) A fish. See Cony.

Confab (n.) Familiar talk or conversation.

Confabulated (imp. & p. p.) of Confabulate

Confabulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confabulate

Confabulate (v. i.) To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle.

Confabulation (n.) Familiar talk; easy, unrestrained, unceremonious conversation.

Confabulatory (a.) Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue.

Confalon (n.) One of a fraternity of seculars, also called Penitents.

Confarreation (n.) A form of marriage among the Romans, in which an offering of bread was made, in presence of the high priest and at least ten witnesses.

Confated (p.a.) Fated or decreed with something else.

Confected (imp. & p. p.) of Confect

Confecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confect

Confect (v. t.) To prepare, as sweetmeats; to make a confection of.

Confect (v. t.) To construct; to form; to mingle or mix.

Confect (n.) A comfit; a confection.

Confection (n.) A composition of different materials.

Confection (n.) A preparation of fruits or roots, etc., with sugar; a sweetmeat.

Confection (n.) A composition of drugs.

Confection (n.) A soft solid made by incorporating a medicinal substance or substances with sugar, sirup, or honey.

Confectionary (n.) A confectioner.

Confectionary (a.) Prepared as a confection.

Confectioner (n.) A compounder.

Confectioner (n.) One whose occupation it is to make or sell confections, candies, etc.

Confectionery (n.) Sweetmeats, in general; things prepared and sold by a confectioner; confections; candies.

Confectionery (n.) A place where candies, sweetmeats, and similar things are made or sold.

Confectory (a.) Pertaining to the art of making sweetmeats.

Confecture (n.) Same as Confiture.

Confeder (v. i.) To confederate.

Confederacies (pl. ) of Confederacy

Confederacy (n.) A league or compact between two or more persons, bodies of men, or states, for mutual support or common action; alliance.

Confederacy (n.) The persons, bodies, states, or nations united by a league; a confederation.

Confederacy (n.) A combination of two or more persons to commit an unlawful act, or to do a lawful act by unlawful means. See Conspiracy.

Confederate (a.) United in a league; allied by treaty; engaged in a confederacy; banded together; allied.

Confederate (a.) Of or pertaining to the government of the eleven Southern States of the United States which (1860-1865) attempted to establish an independent nation styled the Confederate States of America; as, the Confederate congress; Confederate money.

Confederate (n.) One who is united with others in a league; a person or a nation engaged in a confederacy; an ally; also, an accomplice in a bad sense.

Confederate (n.) A name designating an adherent to the cause of the States which attempted to withdraw from the Union (1860-1865).

Confederated (imp. & p. p.) of Confederate

Confederating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confederate

Confederate (v. t.) To unite in a league or confederacy; to ally.

Confederate (v. i.) To unite in a league; to join in a mutual contract or covenant; to band together.

Confederater (n.) A confederate.

Confederation (n.) The act of confederating; a league; a compact for mutual support; alliance, particularly of princes, nations, or states.

Confederation (n.) The parties that are confederated, considered as a unit; a confederacy.

Confederative (a.) Of or pertaining to a confederation.

Confederator (n.) A confederate.

Conferred (imp. & p. p.) of Confer

Conferring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confer

Confer (v. t.) To bring together for comparison; to compare.

Confer (v. t.) To grant as a possession; to bestow.

Confer (v. t.) To contribute; to conduce.

Confer (v. i.) To have discourse; to consult; to compare views; to deliberate.

Conferee (n.) One who is conferred with, or who takes part in a conference; as, the conferees on the part of the Senate.

Conferee (n.) One upon whom something is conferred.

Conference (n.) The act of comparing two or more things together; comparison.

Conference (n.) The act of consulting together formally; serious conversation or discussion; interchange of views.

Conference (n.) A meeting for consultation, discussion, or an interchange of opinions.

Conference (n.) A meeting of the two branches of a legislature, by their committees, to adjust between them.

Conference (n.) A stated meeting of preachers and others, invested with authority to take cognizance of ecclesiastical matters.

Conference (n.) A voluntary association of Congregational churches of a district; the district in which such churches are.

Conferential (a.) Relating to conference.

Conferrable (a.) Capable of being conferred.

Conferree (n.) Same as Conferee.

Conferrer (n.) One who confers; one who converses.

Conferrer (n.) One who bestows; a giver.

Conferruminate (a.) Alt. of Conferruminated

Conferruminated (a.) Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, of contiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oak acorn.

Confervae (pl. ) of Conferva

Conferva (n.) Any unbranched, slender, green plant of the fresh-water algae. The word is frequently used in a wider sense.

Confervaceous (a.) Belonging to the confervae.

Confervoid (a.) Like, or related to, the confervae.

Confervous (a.) Pertaining to confervae; consisting of, or resembling, the confervae.

Confessed (imp. & p. p.) of Confess

Confessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confess

Confess (v. t.) To make acknowledgment or avowal in a matter pertaining to one's self; to acknowledge, own, or admit, as a crime, a fault, a debt.

Confess (v. t.) To acknowledge faith in; to profess belief in.

Confess (v. t.) To admit as true; to assent to; to acknowledge, as after a previous doubt, denial, or concealment.

Confess (v. t.) To make known or acknowledge, as one's sins to a priest, in order to receive absolution; -- sometimes followed by the reflexive pronoun.

Confess (v. t.) To hear or receive such confession; -- said of a priest.

Confess (v. t.) To disclose or reveal, as an effect discloses its cause; to prove; to attest.

Confess (v. i.) To make confession; to disclose sins or faults, or the state of the conscience.

Confess (v. i.) To acknowledge; to admit; to concede.

Confessant (n.) One who confesses to a priest.

Confessary (n.) One who makes a confession.

Confessedly (adv.) By confession; without denial.

Confesser (n.) One who makes a confession.

Confession (n.) Acknowledgment; avowal, especially in a matter pertaining to one's self; the admission of a debt, obligation, or crime.

Confession (n.) Acknowledgment of belief; profession of one's faith.

Confession (n.) The act of disclosing sins or faults to a priest in order to obtain sacramental absolution.

Confession (n.) A formulary in which the articles of faith are comprised; a creed to be assented to or signed, as a preliminary to admission to membership of a church; a confession of faith.

Confession (n.) An admission by a party to whom an act is imputed, in relation to such act. A judicial confession settles the issue to which it applies; an extrajudical confession may be explained or rebutted.

Confessional (n.) The recess, seat, or inclosed place, where a priest sits to hear confessions; often a small structure furnished with a seat for the priest and with a window or aperture so that the penitent who is outside may whisper into the priest's ear without being seen by him or heard by others.

Confessional (a.) Pertaining to a confession of faith.

Confessionalism (n.) An exaggerated estimate of the importance of giving full assent to any particular formula of the Christian faith.

Confessionalist (n.) A priest hearing, or sitting to hear, confession.

Confessionary (n.) A confessional.

Confessionary (a.) Pertaining to auricular confession; as, a confessionary litany.

Confessionist (n.) One professing a certain faith.

Confessor (n.) One who confesses; one who acknowledges a fault, or the truth of a charge, at the risk of suffering; specifically, one who confesses himself a follower of Christ and endures persecution for his faith.

Confessor (n.) A priest who hears the confessions of others and is authorized to grant them absolution.

Confessorship (n.) The act or state of suffering persecution for religious faith.

Confestly (adv.) See Cofessedly.

Confidant (n. fem.) Alt. of Confidante

Confidante (n. fem.) One to whom secrets, especially those relating to affairs of love, are confided or intrusted; a confidential or bosom friend.

Confided (imp. & p. p.) of Confide

Confiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confide

Confide (v. i.) To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usually followed by in; as, the prince confides in his ministers.

Confide (v. t.) To intrust; to give in charge; to commit to one's keeping; -- followed by to.

Confidence (n.) The act of confiding, trusting, or putting faith in; trust; reliance; belief; -- formerly followed by of, now commonly by in.

Confidence (n.) That in which faith is put or reliance had.

Confidence (n.) The state of mind characterized by one's reliance on himself, or his circumstances; a feeling of self-sufficiency; such assurance as leads to a feeling of security; self-reliance; -- often with self prefixed.

Confidence (n.) Private conversation; (pl.) secrets shared; as, there were confidences between them.

Confidence (n.) Trustful; without fear or suspicion; frank; unreserved.

Confidence (n.) Having self-reliance; bold; undaunted.

Confidence (n.) Having an excess of assurance; bold to a fault; dogmatical; impudent; presumptuous.

Confidence (n.) Giving occasion for confidence.

Confident (n.) See Confidant.

Confidential (a.) Enjoying, or treated with, confidence; trusted in; trustworthy; as, a confidential servant or clerk.

Confidential (a.) Communicated in confidence; secret.

Confidentially (adv.) In confidence; in reliance on secrecy.

Confidently (adv.) With confidence; with strong assurance; positively.

Confidentness (n.) The quality of being confident.

Confider (n.) One who confides.

Confiding (a.) That confides; trustful; unsuspicious.

Configurate (v. i.) To take form or position, as the parts of a complex structure; to agree with a pattern.

Configuration (n.) Form, as depending on the relative disposition of the parts of a thing' shape; figure.

Configuration (n.) Relative position or aspect of the planets; the face of the horoscope, according to the relative positions of the planets at any time.

Configured (imp. & p. p.) of Configure

Configuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Configure

Configure (v. t.) To arrange or dispose in a certain form, figure, or shape.

Confinable (a.) Capable of being confined, restricted, or limited.

Confined (imp. & p. p.) of Confine

Confining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confine

Confine (v. t.) To restrain within limits; to restrict; to limit; to bound; to shut up; to inclose; to keep close.

Confine (v. i.) To have a common boundary; to border; to lie contiguous; to touch; -- followed by on or with.

Confine (n.) Common boundary; border; limit; -- used chiefly in the plural.

Confine (n.) Apartment; place of restraint; prison.

Confineless (a.) Without limitation or end; boundless.

Confinement (n.) Restraint within limits; imprisonment; any restraint of liberty; seclusion.

Confinement (n.) Restraint within doors by sickness, esp. that caused by childbirth; lying-in.

Confiner (n.) One who, or that which, limits or restrains.

Confiner (n.) One who lives on confines, or near the border of a country; a borderer; a near neighbor.

Confinity (n.) Community of limits; contiguity.

Confrmed (imp. & p. p.) of Confirm

Confirming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confirm

Confirm (v. t.) To make firm or firmer; to add strength to; to establish; as, health is confirmed by exercise.

Confirm (v. t.) To strengthen in judgment or purpose.

Confirm (v. t.) To give new assurance of the truth of; to render certain; to verify; to corroborate; as, to confirm a rumor.

Confirm (v. t.) To render valid by formal assent; to complete by a necessary sanction; to ratify; as, to confirm the appoinment of an official; the Senate confirms a treaty.

Confirm (v. t.) To administer the rite of confirmation to. See Confirmation, 3.

Confirmable (a.) That may be confirmed.

Confirmance (n.) Confirmation.

Confirmation (n.) The act of confirming or strengthening; the act of establishing, ratifying, or sanctioning; as, the confirmation of an appointment.

Confirmation (n.) That which confirms; that which gives new strength or assurance; as to a statement or belief; additional evidence; proof; convincing testimony.

Confirmation (n.) A rite supplemental to baptism, by which a person is admitted, through the laying on of the hands of a bishop, to the full privileges of the church, as in the Roman Catholic, the Episcopal Church, etc.

Confirmation (n.) A conveyance by which a voidable estate is made sure and not voidable, or by which a particular estate is increased; a contract, express or implied, by which a person makes that firm and binding which was before voidable.

Confirmative (a.) Tending to confirm or establish.

Confirmator (n.) One who, or that which, confirms; a confirmer.

Confirmatory (a. .) Serving to confirm; corroborative.

Confirmatory (a. .) Pertaining to the rite of confirmation.

Confirmedly (adv.) With confirmation.

Confirmedness (n.) A fixed state.

Confirmee (n.) One to whom anything is confirmed.

Confirmer (n.) One who, or that which, confirms, establishes, or ratifies; one who corroborates.

Confirmingly (adv.) In a confirming manner.

Confiscable (a.) Capable of being confiscated; liable to forfeiture.

Confiscate (a.) Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use; forfeited.

Confiscated (imp. & p. p.) of Confiscate

Confiscating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confiscate

Confiscate (v. t. ) To seize as forfeited to the public treasury; to appropriate to the public use.

Confiscation (n.) The act or process of taking property or condemning it to be taken, as forfeited to the public use.

Confiscator (n.) One who confiscates.

Confiscatory (a.) Effecting confiscation; characterized by confiscations.

Confit (n.) Same as Comfit.

Confitent (n.) One who confesses his sins and faults.

Confiteor (n.) A form of prayer in which public confession of sins is made.

Confiture (n.) Composition; preparation, as of a drug, or confection; a sweetmeat.

Confixed (imp. & p. p.) of Confix

Confix (v. t.) To fix; to fasten.

Confixure (n.) Act of fastening.

Conflagrant (a.) Burning together in a common flame.

Conflagration (n.) A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; a general burning.

Conflated (imp. & p. p.) of Conflate

Conflating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conflate

Conflate (v. t.) To blow together; to bring together; to collect; to fuse together; to join or weld; to consolidate.

Conflation (n.) A blowing together, as of many instruments in a concert, or of many fires in a foundry.

Conflict (v.) A striking or dashing together; violent collision; as, a conflict of elements or waves.

Conflict (v.) A strife for the mastery; hostile contest; battle; struggle; fighting.

Conflicted (imp. & p. p.) of Conflict

Conflicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conflict

Conflict (v. i.) To strike or dash together; to meet in violent collision; to collide.

Conflict (v. i.) To maintain a conflict; to contend; to engage in strife or opposition; to struggle.

Conflict (v. i.) To be in opposition; to be contradictory.

Conflicting (a.) Being in conflict or collision, or in opposition; contending; contradictory; incompatible; contrary; opposing.

Conflictive (a.) Tending to conflict; conflicting.

Confluence (n.) The act of flowing together; the meeting or junction of two or more streams; the place of meeting.

Confluence (n.) Any running together of separate streams or currents; the act of meeting and crowding in a place; hence, a crowd; a concourse; an assemblage.

Confluent (a.) Flowing together; meeting in their course; running one into another.

Confluent (a.) Blended into one; growing together, so as to obliterate all distinction.

Confluent (a.) Running together or uniting, as pimples or pustules.

Confluent (a.) Characterized by having the pustules, etc., run together or unite, so as to cover the surface; as, confluent smallpox.

Confluent (n.) A small steam which flows into a large one.

Confluent (n.) The place of meeting of steams, currents, etc.

Conflux (n.) A flowing together; a meeting of currents.

Conflux (n.) A large assemblage; a passing multitude.

Confluxibility (n.) The tendency of fluids to run together.

Confluxible (a.) Inclined to flow or run together.

Confocal (a.) Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics.

Conform (a.) Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.

Conformed (imp. & p. p.) of Conform

Conforming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conform

Conform (v. t.) To shape in accordance with; to make like; to bring into harmony or agreement with; -- usually with to or unto.

Conform (v. i.) To be in accord or harmony; to comply; to be obedient; to submit; -- with to or with.

Conform (v. i.) To comply with the usages of the Established Church; to be a conformist.

Conformability (n.) The state of being conformable.

Conformability (n.) The parallelism of two sets of strata which are in contact.

Conformable (a.) Corresponding in form, character, opinions, etc.; similar; like; consistent; proper or suitable; -- usually followed by to.

Conformable (a.) Disposed to compliance or obedience; ready to follow direstions; submissive; compliant.

Conformable (a.) Parallel, or nearly so; -- said of strata in contact.

Conformableness (n.) The quality of being conformable; conformability.

Conformably (adv.) With conformity or in conformity; suitably; agreeably.

Conformance (n.) Conformity.

Conformate (a.) Having the same form.

Conformation (n.) The act of conforming; the act of producing conformity.

Conformation (n.) The state of being conformed; agreement; hence; structure, as depending on the arrangement of parts; form; arrangement.

Conformer (n.) One who conforms; one who complies with established forms or doctrines.

Conformist (n.) One who conforms or complies; esp., one who conforms to the Church of England, or to the Established Church, as distinguished from a dissenter or nonconformist.

Conformities (pl. ) of Conformity

Conformity (n.) Correspondence in form, manner, or character; resemblance; agreement; congruity; -- followed by to, with, or between.

Conformity (n.) Compliance with the usages of the Established Church.

Confortation (n.) The act of strengthening.

Confounded (imp. & p. p.) of Confound

Confounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confound

Confound (v. t.) To mingle and blend, so that different elements can not be distinguished; to confuse.

Confound (v. t.) To mistake for another; to identify falsely.

Confound (v. t.) To throw into confusion or disorder; to perplex; to strike with amazement; to dismay.

Confound (v. t.) To destroy; to ruin; to waste.

Confounded (a.) Confused; perplexed.

Confounded (a.) Excessive; extreme; abominable.

Confoundedly (adv.) Extremely; odiously; detestable.

Confoundedness (n.) The state of being confounded.

Confounder (n.) One who confounds.

Confract (a.) Broken in pieces; severed.

Confragose (a.) Broken; uneven.

Confraternities (pl. ) of Confraternity

Confraternity (n.) A society of body of men united for some purpose, or in some profession; a brotherhood.

Confrere (n.) Fellow member of a fraternity; intimate associate.

Confrication (n.) A rubbing together; friction.

Confrier (n.) A confr/re.

Confronted (imp. & p. p.) of Confront

Confronting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confront

Confront (v. t.) To stand facing or in front of; to face; esp. to face hostilely; to oppose with firmness.

Confront (v. t.) To put face to face; to cause to face or to meet; as, to confront one with the proofs of his wrong doing.

Confront (v. t.) To set in opposition for examination; to put in contrast; to compare.

Confrontation (n.) Act of confrontating.

Confronte (a.) Same as Affronte.

Confronter (n.) One who confronts.

Confrontment (n.) The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.

Confrontment (n.) The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.

Confucian (a.) Of, or relating to, Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher and teacher.

Confucian (n.) A Confucianist.

Confucianism (n.) The political morality taught by Confucius and his disciples, which forms the basis of the Chinese jurisprudence and education. It can hardly be called a religion, as it does not inculcate the worship of any god.

Confucianist (n.) A follower of Confucius; a Confucian.

Confus (a.) Confused, disturbed.

Confusability (n.) Capability of being confused.

Confusable (a.) Capable of being confused.

Confuse (a.) Mixed; confounded.

Confused (imp. & p. p.) of Confuse

Confusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confuse

Confuse (v. t.) To mix or blend so that things can not be distinguished; to jumble together; to confound; to render indistinct or obscure; as, to confuse accounts; to confuse one's vision.

Confuse (v. t.) To perplex; to disconcert; to abash; to cause to lose self-possession.

Confusedly (adv.) In a confused manner.

Confusedness (n.) A state of confusion.

Confusely (adv.) Confusedly; obscurely.

Confusion (n.) The state of being mixed or blended so as to produce indistinctness or error; indistinct combination; disorder; tumult.

Confusion (n.) The state of being abashed or disconcerted; loss self-possession; perturbation; shame.

Confusion (n.) Overthrow; defeat; ruin.

Confusion (n.) One who confuses; a confounder.

Confusive (a.) Confusing; having a tendency to confusion.

Confutable (a.) That may be confuted.

Confutant (n.) One who undertakes to confute.

Confutation (n.) The act or process of confuting; refutation.

Confutative (a.) Adapted or designed to confute.

Confuted (imp. & p. p.) of Confute

Confuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confute

Confute (v. t.) To overwhelm by argument; to refute conclusively; to prove or show to be false or defective; to overcome; to silence.

Confutement (n.) Confutation.

Confuter (n.) One who confutes or disproves.

Cong (n.) An abbreviation of Congius.

Conge (n.) The act of taking leave; parting ceremony; farewell; also, dismissal.

Conge (n.) The customary act of civility on any occasion; a bow or a courtesy.

Conge (n.) An apophyge.

Conge (n.) To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow or courtesy.

Congeable (a.) Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable.

Congealed (imp. & p. p.) of Congeal

Congealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Congeal

Congeal (v. t.) To change from a fluid to a solid state by cold; to freeze.

Congeal (v. t.) To affect as if by freezing; to check the flow of, or cause to run cold; to chill.

Congeal (v. i.) To grow hard, stiff, or thick, from cold or other causes; to become solid; to freeze; to cease to flow; to run cold; to be chilled.

Congealable (a.) Capable of being congealed.

Congealedness (n.) The state of being congealed.

Congealment (n.) The act or the process of congealing; congeliation.

Congealment (n.) That which is formed by congelation; a clot.

Congee (n. & v.) See Conge, Conge.

Congee (n.) Boiled rice; rice gruel.

Congee (n.) A jail; a lockup.

Congelation (n.) The act or process of passing, or causing to pass, from a fluid to a solid state, as by the abstraction of heat; the act or process of freezing.

Congelation (n.) The state of being congealed.

Congelation (n.) That which is congealed.

Congener (n.) A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied in nature, character, or action.

Congeneracy (n.) Similarity of origin; affinity.

Congeneric (a.) Alt. of Congenerical

Congenerical (a.) Belonging to the same genus; allied in origin, nature, or action.

Congenerous (a.) Allied in origin or cause; congeneric; as, congenerous diseases.

Congenial (a.) Partaking of the same nature; allied by natural characteristics; kindred; sympathetic.

Congenial (a.) Naturally adapted; suited to the disposition.

Congeniality (n.) The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity; adaptation; suitableness.

Congenialize (v. t.) To make congenial.

Congenially (adv.) In a congenial manner; as, congenially married or employed.

Congenialness (n.) Congeniality.

Congenious (a.) Congeneric.

Congenital (a.) Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one from birth; born with one; connate; constitutional; natural; as, a congenital deformity. See Connate.

Congenitally (dv.) In a congenital manner.

Congenite (a.) Congenital; connate; inborn. See Congenital.

Conger (n.) The conger eel; -- called also congeree.

Congeries (n. sing & pl.) A collection of particles or bodies into one mass; a heap; an aggregation.

Congest (v. t. ) To collect or gather into a mass or aggregate; to bring together; to accumulate.

Congest (v. t. ) To cause an overfullness of the blood vessels (esp. the capillaries) of an organ or part.

Congested (a.) Crowded together.

Congested (a.) Containing an unnatural accumulation of blood; hyperaemic; -- said of any part of the body.

Congestion (n.) The act of gathering into a heap or mass; accumulation.

Congestion (n.) Overfullness of the capillary and other blood vessels, etc., in any locality or organ (often producing other morbid symptoms); local hyper/mia, active or passive; as, arterial congestion; venous congestion; congestion of the lungs.

Congestive (a.) Pertaining to, indicating, or attended with, congestion in some part of the body; as, a congestive fever.

Congiaries (pl. ) of Congiary

Congiary (n.) A present, as of corn, wine, or oil, made by a Roman emperor to the soldiers or the people; -- so called because measured to each in a congius.

Congius (n.) A liquid measure containing about three quarts.

Congius (n.) A gallon, or four quarts.

Conglaciate (v. t. & i.) To turn to ice; to freeze.

Conglaciation (n.) The act or process of changing into ice, or the state of being converted to ice; a freezing; congelation; also, a frost.

Conglobate (a.) Collected into, or forming, a rounded mass or ball; as, the conglobate [lymphatic] glands; conglobate flowers.

Conglobated (imp. & p. p.) of Conglobate

Conglobating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conglobate

Conglobate (v. t.) To collect or form into a ball or rounded mass; to gather or mass together.

Conglobation (n.) The act or process of forming into a ball.

Conglobation (n.) A round body.

Conglobed (imp. & p. p.) of Conglobe

Conglobing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conglobe

Conglobe (v. t. ) To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass.

Conglobe (v. i.) To collect, unite, or coalesce in a round mass.

Conglobulate (v. i.) To gather into a small round mass.

Conglomerate (a.) Gathered into a ball or a mass; collected together; concentrated; as, conglomerate rays of light.

Conglomerate (a.) Closely crowded together; densly clustered; as, conglomerate flowers.

Conglomerate (a.) Composed of stones, pebbles, or fragments of rocks, cemented together.

Conglomerate (n.) That which is heaped together in a mass or conpacted from various sources; a mass formed of fragments; collection; accumulation.

Conglomerate (n.) A rock, composed or rounded fragments of stone cemented together by another mineral substance, either calcareous, siliceous, or argillaceous; pudding stone; -- opposed to agglomerate. See Breccia.

Conglomerated (imp. & p. p.) of Conglomerate

Conglomerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conglomerate

Conglomerate (v. t.) To gather into a ball or round body; to collect into a mass.

Conglomeration (n.) The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of being thus collected; collection; accumulation; that which is conglomerated; a mixed mass.

Conglutin (n.) A variety of vegetable casein, resembling legumin, and found in almonds, rye, wheat, etc.

Conglutinant (a.) Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere; promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of the parts.

Conglutinate (a.) Glued together; united, as by some adhesive substance.

Conglutinated (imp. & p. p.) of Conglutinate

Conglutinate (v. t.) To glue together; to unite by some glutinous or tenacious substance; to cause to adhere or to grow together.

Conglutinate (v. i.) To unite by the intervention of some glutinous substance; to coalesce.

Conglutination (n.) A gluing together; a joining by means of some tenacious substance; junction; union.

Conglutinative (a.) Conglutinant.

Congou (n.) Alt. of Congo

Congo (n.) Black tea, of higher grade (finer leaf and less dusty) than the present bohea. See Tea.

Congo snake () An amphibian (Amphiuma means) of the order Urodela, found in the southern United States. See Amphiuma.

Congratulant (a.) Rejoicing together; congratulatory.

Congratulated (imp. & p. p.) of Congratulate

Congratulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Congratulate

Congratulate (v. t.) To address with expressions of sympathetic pleasure on account of some happy event affecting the person addressed; to wish joy to.

Congratulate (v. i.) To express of feel sympathetic joy; as, to congratulate with one's country.

Congratulation (n.) The act of congratulating; an expression of sympathetic pleasure.

Congratulator (n.) One who offers congratulation.

Congratulatory (a.) Expressive of sympathetic joy; as, a congratulatory letter.

Congree (v. i.) To agree.

Congreet (v. t.) To salute mutually.

Congregate (a.) Collected; compact; close.

Congregated (imp. & p. p.) of Congregate

Congregating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Congregate

Congregate (v. t.) To collect into an assembly or assemblage; to assemble; to bring into one place, or into a united body; to gather together; to mass; to compact.

Congregate (v. i.) To come together; to assemble; to meet.

Congregation (n.) The act of congregating, or bringing together, or of collecting into one aggregate or mass.

Congregation (n.) A collection or mass of separate things.

Congregation (n.) An assembly of persons; a gathering; esp. an assembly of persons met for the worship of God, and for religious instruction; a body of people who habitually so meet.

Congregation (n.) The whole body of the Jewish people; -- called also Congregation of the Lord.

Congregation (n.) A body of cardinals or other ecclesiastics to whom as intrusted some department of the church business; as, the Congregation of the Propaganda, which has charge of the missions of the Roman Catholic Church.

Congregation (n.) A company of religious persons forming a subdivision of a monastic order.

Congregation (n.) The assemblage of Masters and Doctors at Oxford or Cambrige University, mainly for the granting of degrees.

Congregation (n.) the name assumed by the Protestant party under John Knox. The leaders called themselves (1557) Lords of the Congregation.

Congregational (a.) Of or pertaining to a congregation; conducted, or participated in, by a congregation; as, congregational singing.

Congregational (a.) Belonging to the system of Congregationalism, or to Congregationalist; holding to the faith and polity of Congregationalism; as, a Congregational church.

Congregationalism (n.) That system of church organization which vests all ecclesiastical power in the assembled brotherhood of each local church.

Congregationalism (n.) The faith and polity of the Congregational churches, taken collectively.

Congregationalist (n.) One who belongs to a Congregational church or society; one who holds to Congregationalism.

Congresses (pl. ) of Congress

Congress (n.) A meeting of individuals, whether friendly or hostile; an encounter.

Congress (n.) A sudden encounter; a collision; a shock; -- said of things.

Congress (n.) The coming together of a male and female in sexual commerce; the act of coition.

Congress (n.) A gathering or assembly; a conference.

Congress (n.) A formal assembly, as of princes, deputies, representatives, envoys, or commissioners; esp., a meeting of the representatives of several governments or societies to consider and determine matters of common interest.

Congress (n.) The collective body of senators and representatives of the people of a nation, esp. of a republic, constituting the chief legislative body of the nation.

Congress (n.) The lower house of the Spanish Cortes, the members of which are elected for three years.

Congression (n.) A coming or bringing together, as in a public meeting, in a dispute, in the act of comparing, or in sexual intercourse.

Congressional (a.) Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress of the United States; as, congressional debates.

Congressive (a.) Encountering, or coming together.

Congressmen (pl. ) of Congressman

Congressman (n.) A member of the Congress of the United States, esp. of the House of Representatives.

Congreve rocket () See under Rocket.

Congrue (v. i.) To agree; to be suitable.

Congruence (n.) Suitableness of one thing to another; agreement; consistency.

Congruency (n.) Congruence.

Congruent (a.) Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding.

Congruism (n.) See Congruity.

Congruities (pl. ) of Congruity

Congruity (n.) The state or quality of being congruous; the relation or agreement between things; fitness; harmony; correspondence; consistency.

Congruity (n.) Coincidence, as that of lines or figures laid over one another.

Congruity (n.) That, in an imperfectly good persons, which renders it suitable for God to bestow on him gifts of grace.

Congruous (a.) Suitable or concordant; accordant; fit; harmonious; correspondent; consistent.

Congruously (adv.) In a congruous manner.

Conhydrine (n.) A vegetable alkaloid found with conine in the poison hemlock (Conium maculatum). It is a white crystalline substance, C8H17NO, easily convertible into conine.

Conia (n.) Same as Conine.

Conic (a.) Alt. of Conical

Conical (a.) Having the form of, or resembling, a geometrical cone; round and tapering to a point, or gradually lessening in circumference; as, a conic or conical figure; a conical vessel.

Conical (a.) Of or pertaining to a cone; as, conic sections.

Conic (n.) A conic section.

Conicality (n.) Conicalness.

Conically (adv.) In the form of a cone.

Conicalness (n.) State or quality of being conical.

Conico- (a.) A combining form, meaning somewhat resembling a cone; as, conico-cylindrical, resembling a cone and a cylinder; conico-hemispherical; conico-subulate.

Conicoid (a.) Same as Conoidal.

Conics (n.) That branch of geometry which treats of the cone and the curves which arise from its sections.

Conics (n.) Conic sections.

Conida (pl. ) of Conidium

Conidium (n.) A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi, and often containing zoospores.

Conifer (n.) A tree or shrub bearing cones; one of the order Coniferae, which includes the pine, cypress, and (according to some) the yew.

Coniferin (n.) A glucoside extracted from the cambium layer of coniferous trees as a white crystalline substance.

Coniferous (a.) Bearing cones, as the pine and cypress.

Coniferous (a.) Pertaining to the order Coniferae, of which the pine tree is the type.

Coniform (a.) Cone-shaped; conical.

Coniine (n.) See Conine.

Conimene (n.) Same as Olibene.

Conine (n.) A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N, of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste. It is regarded as a derivative of piperidine and likewise of one of the collidines. It occasions a gradual paralysis of the motor nerves. Called also coniine, coneine, conia, etc. See Conium, 2.

Coniroster (n.) One of the Conirostres.

Conirostral (a.) Belonging to the Conirostres.

Conirostres (n. pl.) A tribe of perching birds, including those which have a strong conical bill, as the finches.

Conisor (n.) See Cognizor.

Conistra (n.) Originally, a part of the palestra, or gymnasium among the Greeks; either the place where sand was stored for use in sprinkling the wrestlers, or the wrestling ground itself. Hence, a part of the orchestra of the Greek theater.

Conite (n.) A magnesian variety of dolomite.

Conium (n.) A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferous plants, bearing ribbed fruit (seeds) and decompound leaves.

Conium (n.) The common hemlock (Conium maculatum, poison hemlock, spotted hemlock, poison parsley), a roadside weed of Europe, Asia, and America, cultivated in the United States for medicinal purpose. It is an active poison. The leaves and fruit are used in medicine.

Conject (n.) To throw together, or to throw.

Conject (v. t.) To conjecture; also, to plan.

Conjector (n.) One who guesses or conjectures.

Conjecturable (a.) Capable of being conjectured or guessed.

Conjectural (a.) Dependent on conjecture; fancied; imagined; guessed at; undetermined; doubtful.

Conjecturalist (n.) A conjecturer.

Conjecturally (n.) That which depends upon guess; guesswork.

Conjecturally (adv.) In a conjectural manner; by way of conjecture.

Conjecture (n.) An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptive evidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion.

Conjectured (imp. & p. p.) of Conjecture

Conjecturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conjecture

Conjecture (v. t.) To arrive at by conjecture; to infer on slight evidence; to surmise; to guess; to form, at random, opinions concerning.

Conjecture (v. i.) To make conjectures; to surmise; to guess; to infer; to form an opinion; to imagine.

Conjecturer (n.) One who conjectures.

Conjoined (imp. & p. p.) of Conjoin

Conjoining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conjoin

Conjoin (v. t.) To join together; to unite.

Conjoin (v. i.) To unite; to join; to league.

Conjoined (a.) Joined together or touching.

Conjoint (a.) United; connected; associated.

Conjointly (adv.) In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together.

Conjointness (n.) The quality of being conjoint.

Conjubilant (a.) Shouting together for joy; rejoicing together.

Conjugal (a.) Belonging to marriage; suitable or appropriate to the marriage state or to married persons; matrimonial; connubial.

Conjugality (n.) The conjugal state; sexual intercourse.

Conjugally (adv.) In a conjugal manner; matrimonially; connubially.

Conjugate (a.) United in pairs; yoked together; coupled.

Conjugate (a.) In single pairs; coupled.

Conjugate (a.) Containing two or more radicals supposed to act the part of a single one.

Conjugate (a.) Agreeing in derivation and radical signification; -- said of words.

Conjugate (a.) Presenting themselves simultaneously and having reciprocal properties; -- frequently used in pure and applied mathematics with reference to two quantities, points, lines, axes, curves, etc.

Conjugate (n.) A word agreeing in derivation with another word, and therefore generally resembling it in signification.

Conjugate (n.) A complex radical supposed to act the part of a single radical.

Conjugated (imp. & p. p.) of Conjugate

Conjugating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conjugate

Conjugate (v. t.) To unite in marriage; to join.

Conjugate (v. t.) To inflect (a verb), or give in order the forms which it assumed in its several voices, moods, tenses, numbers, and persons.

Conjugate (v. i.) To unite in a kind of sexual union, as two or more cells or individuals among the more simple plants and animals.

Conjugation (n.) the act of uniting or combining; union; assemblage.

Conjugation (n.) Two things conjoined; a pair; a couple.

Conjugation (n.) The act of conjugating a verb or giving in order its various parts and inflections.

Conjugation (n.) A scheme in which are arranged all the parts of a verb.

Conjugation (n.) A class of verbs conjugated in the same manner.

Conjugation (n.) A kind of sexual union; -- applied to a blending of the contents of two or more cells or individuals in some plants and lower animals, by which new spores or germs are developed.

Conjugational (a.) relating to conjugation.

Conjugial (a.) Conjugal.

Conjugium (n.) The marriage tie.

Conjunct (a.) United; conjoined; concurrent.

Conjunct (a.) Same as Conjoined.

Conjunction (n.) The act of conjoining, or the state of being conjoined, united, or associated; union; association; league.

Conjunction (n.) The meeting of two or more stars or planets in the same degree of the zodiac; as, the conjunction of the moon with the sun, or of Jupiter and Saturn. See the Note under Aspect, n., 6.

Conjunction (n.) A connective or connecting word; an indeclinable word which serves to join together sentences, clauses of a sentence, or words; as, and, but, if.

Conjunctional (a.) Relating to a conjunction.

Conjunctiva (n.) The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of the ball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctival membrane.

Conjunctival (a.) Joining; connecting.

Conjunctival (a.) Of or pertaining to the conjunctiva.

Conjunctive (a.) Serving to unite; connecting together.

Conjunctive (a.) Closely united.

Conjunctively (adv.) In conjunction or union; together.

Conjunctiveness (n.) The state or quality of being conjunctive.

Conjunctivitis (n.) Inflammation of the conjunctiva.

Conjunctly (adv.) In union; conjointly; unitedly; together.

Conjuncture (n.) The act of joining, or state of being joined; union; connection; combination.

Conjuncture (n.) A crisis produced by a combination of circumstances; complication or combination of events or circumstances; plight resulting from various conditions.

Conjuration (n.) The act of calling or summoning by a sacred name, or in solemn manner; the act of binding by an oath; an earnest entreaty; adjuration.

Conjuration (n.) The act or process of invoking supernatural aid by the use of a magical form of words; the practice of magic arts; incantation; enchantment.

Conjuration (n.) A league for a criminal purpose; conspiracy.

Conjurator (n.) One who swears or is sworn with others; one bound by oath with others; a compurgator.

Conjured (imp. & p. p.) of Conjure

Conjuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conjure

Conjure (v. t.) To call on or summon by a sacred name or in solemn manner; to implore earnestly; to adjure.

Conjure (v. i.) To combine together by an oath; to conspire; to confederate.

Conjure (v. t.) To affect or effect by conjuration; to call forth or send away by magic arts; to excite or alter, as if by magic or by the aid of supernatural powers.

Conjure (v. i.) To practice magical arts; to use the tricks of a conjurer; to juggle; to charm.

Conjurement (n.) Serious injunction; solemn demand or entreaty.

Conjurer (n.) One who conjures; one who calls, entreats, or charges in a solemn manner.

Conjurer (n.) One who practices magic arts; one who pretends to act by the aid super natural power; also, one who performs feats of legerdemain or sleight of hand.

Conjurer (n.) One who conjectures shrewdly or judges wisely; a man of sagacity.

Conjuror (n.) One bound by a common oath with others.

Conjury (n.) The practice of magic; enchantment.

Conn (v. t.) See Con, to direct a ship.

Connascence (n.) Alt. of Connascency

Connascency (n.) The common birth of two or more at the same tome; production of two or more together.

Connascency (n.) That which is born or produced with another.

Connascency (n.) The act of growing together.

Connascent (a.) Born together; produced at the same time.

Connate (a.) Born with another; being of the same birth.

Connate (a.) Congenital; existing from birth.

Connate (a.) Congenitally united; growing from one base, or united at their bases; united into one body; as, connate leaves or athers. See Illust. of Connate-perfoliate.

Connate-perfoliate (a.) Connate or coalescent at the base so as to produce a broad foliaceous body through the center of which the stem passes; -- applied to leaves, as the leaves of the boneset.

Connation (n.) Connection by birth; natural union.

Connatural (a. ) Connected by nature; united in nature; inborn; inherent; natural.

Connatural (a. ) Partaking of the same nature.

Connaturality (n.) Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection.

Connaturalize (v. t.) To bring to the same nature as something else; to adapt.

Connaturally (adv.) By the act of nature; originally; from birth.

Connaturalness (n.) Participation of the same nature; natural union.

Connature (n.) Participation in a common nature or character.

Connected (imp. & p. p.) of Connect

Connecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Connect

Connect (v. t.) To join, or fasten together, as by something intervening; to associate; to combine; to unite or link together; to establish a bond or relation between.

Connect (v. t.) To associate (a person or thing, or one's self) with another person, thing, business, or affair.

Connect (v. i.) To join, unite, or cohere; to have a close relation; as, one line of railroad connects with another; one argument connect with another.

Connectedly (adv.) In a connected manner.

Connection (n.) The act of connecting, or the state of being connected; junction; union; alliance; relationship.

Connection (n.) That which connects or joins together; bond; tie.

Connection (n.) A relation; esp. a person connected with another by marriage rather than by blood; -- used in a loose and indefinite, and sometimes a comprehensive, sense.

Connection (n.) The persons or things that are connected; as, a business connection; the Methodist connection.

Connective (a.) Connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection.

Connective (n.) That which connects

Connective (n.) A word that connect words or sentences; a conjunction or preposition.

Connective (n.) That part of an anther which connects its thecae, lobes, or cells.

Connectively (adv.) In connjunction; jointly.

Connector (n.) One who, or that which, connects

Connector (n.) A flexible tube for connecting the ends of glass tubes in pneumatic experiments.

Connector (n.) A device for holding two parts of an electrical conductor in contact.

Conner (n.) A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the related American cunner. See Cunner.

Connex (v. t.) To connect.

Connexion (n.) Connection. See Connection.

Connexive (a.) See Connective.

Conning tower (n.) The shot-proof pilot house of a war vessel.

Connivance (n.) Intentional failure or forbearance to discover a fault or wrongdoing; voluntary oversight; passive consent or cooperation.

Connivance (n.) Corrupt or guilty assent to wrongdoing, not involving actual participation in, but knowledge of, and failure to prevent or oppose it.

Connived (imp. & p. p.) of Connive

Conniving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Connive

Connive (v. i.) To open and close the eyes rapidly; to wink.

Connive (v. i.) To close the eyes upon a fault; to wink (at); to fail or forbear by intention to discover an act; to permit a proceeding, as if not aware of it; -- usually followed by at.

Connive (v. t.) To shut the eyes to; to overlook; to pretend not to see.

Connivency (n.) Connivance.

Connivent (a.) Forbearing to see; designedly inattentive; as, connivent justice.

Connivent (a.) Brought close together; arched inward so that the points meet; converging; in close contact; as, the connivent petals of a flower, wings of an insect, or folds of membrane in the human system, etc.

Conniver (n.) One who connives.

Connoisseur (n.) One well versed in any subject; a skillful or knowing person; a critical judge of any art, particulary of one of the fine arts.

Connoisseurship (n.) State of being a connoisseur.

Connotate (v. t.) To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional; to include; to imply.

Connotation (n.) The act of connoting; a making known or designating something additional; implication of something more than is asserted.

Connotative (a.) Implying something additional; illative.

Connotative (a.) Implying an attribute. See Connote.

Connotatively (adv.) In a connotative manner; expressing connotation.

Connoted (imp. & p. p.) of Connote

Connoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Connote

Connote (v. t.) To mark along with; to suggest or indicate as additional; to designate by implication; to include in the meaning; to imply.

Connote (v. t.) To imply as an attribute.

Connubial (a.) Of or pertaining to marriage, or the marriage state; conjugal; nuptial.

Connubiality (n.) The quality of being connubial; something characteristics of the conjugal state; an expression of connubial tenderness.

Connumeration (n.) A reckoning together.

Connusance (n.) See Cognizance.

Connusant (a.) See Cognizant.

Connusor (n.) See Cognizor.

Connutritious (a.) Nutritious by force of habit; -- said of certain kinds of food.

Conny (a.) Brave; fine; canny.

Conodont (n.) A peculiar toothlike fossil of many forms, found especially in carboniferous rocks. Such fossils are supposed by some to be the teeth of marsipobranch fishes, but they are probably the jaws of annelids.

Conoid (n.) Anything that has a form resembling that of a cone.

Conoid (n.) A solid formed by the revolution of a conic section about its axis; as, a parabolic conoid, elliptic conoid, etc.; -- more commonly called paraboloid, ellipsoid, etc.

Conoid (n.) A surface which may be generated by a straight line moving in such a manner as always to meet a given straight line and a given curve, and continue parallel to a given plane.

Conoid (a.) Resembling a cone; conoidal.

Conoidal (a.) Nearly, but not exactly, conical.

Conoidic (a.) Alt. of Conoidical

Conoidical (a.) Pertaining to a conoid; having the form of a conoid.

Conominee (n.) One nominated in conjunction with another; a joint nominee.

Conquadrate (v. t.) To bring into a square.

Conquassate (v. t.) To shake; to agitate.

Conquered (imp. & p. p.) of Conquer

Conquering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conquer

Conquer (v. t.) To gain or acquire by force; to take possession of by violent means; to gain dominion over; to subdue by physical means; to reduce; to overcome by force of arms; to cause to yield; to vanquish.

Conquer (v. t.) To subdue or overcome by mental or moral power; to surmount; as, to conquer difficulties, temptation, etc.

Conquer (v. t.) To gain or obtain, overcoming obstacles in the way; to win; as, to conquer freedom; to conquer a peace.

Conquer (v. i.) To gain the victory; to overcome; to prevail.

Conquerable (a.) Capable of being conquered or subdued.

Conqueress (n.) A woman who conquers.

Conqueror (n.) One who conquers.

Conquest (n.) The act or process of conquering, or acquiring by force; the act of overcoming or subduing opposition by force, whether physical or moral; subjection; subjugation; victory.

Conquest (n.) That which is conquered; possession gained by force, physical or moral.

Conquest (n.) The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance; acquisition.

Conquest (n.) The act of gaining or regaining by successful struggle; as, the conquest of liberty or peace.

Consanguineal (a.) Of the same blood; related by birth.

Consanguined (a.) Of kin blood; related.

Consanguineous (a.) Of the same blood; related by birth; descended from the same parent or ancestor.

Consanguinity (n.) The relation of persons by blood, in distinction from affinity or relation by marriage; blood relationship; as, lineal consanguinity; collateral consanguinity.

Consarcination (n.) A patching together; patchwork.

Conscience (n.) Knowledge of one's own thoughts or actions; consciousness.

Conscience (n.) The faculty, power, or inward principle which decides as to the character of one's own actions, purposes, and affections, warning against and condemning that which is wrong, and approving and prompting to that which is right; the moral faculty passing judgment on one's self; the moral sense.

Conscience (n.) The estimate or determination of conscience; conviction or right or duty.

Conscience (n.) Tenderness of feeling; pity.

Conscienced (a.) Having a conscience.

Conscienceless (a.) Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous.

Conscient (a.) Conscious.

Conscientious (a.) Influenced by conscience; governed by a strict regard to the dictates of conscience, or by the known or supposed rules of right and wrong; -- said of a person.

Conscientious (a.) Characterized by a regard to conscience; conformed to the dictates of conscience; -- said of actions.

Conscientiously (adv.) In a conscientious manner; as a matter of conscience; hence; faithfully; accurately; completely.

Conscientiousness (n.) The quality of being conscientious; a scrupulous regard to the dictates of conscience.

Conscionable (a.) Governed by, or according to, conscience; reasonable; just.

Conscionableness (n.) The quality of being conscionable; reasonableness.

Conscionably (adv.) Reasonably; justly.

Conscious (a.) Possessing the faculty of knowing one's own thoughts or mental operations.

Conscious (a.) Possessing knowledge, whether by internal, conscious experience or by external observation; cognizant; aware; sensible.

Conscious (a.) Made the object of consciousness; known to one's self; as, conscious guilt.

Consciously (adv.) In a conscious manner; with knowledge of one's own mental operations or actions.

Consciousness (n.) The state of being conscious; knowledge of one's own existence, condition, sensations, mental operations, acts, etc.

Consciousness (n.) Immediate knowledge or perception of the presence of any object, state, or sensation. See the Note under Attention.

Consciousness (n.) Feeling, persuasion, or expectation; esp., inward sense of guilt or innocence.

Conscribe (v. t.) To enroll; to enlist.

Conscript (a.) Enrolled; written; registered.

Conscript (n.) One taken by lot, or compulsorily enrolled, to serve as a soldier or sailor.

Conscript (v. t.) To enroll, by compulsion, for military service.

Conscription (n.) An enrolling or registering.

Conscription (n.) A compulsory enrollment of men for military or naval service; a draft.

Conscription (a.) Belonging to, or of the nature of, a conspiration.

Consecrate (a.) Consecrated; devoted; dedicated; sacred.

Consecrated (imp. & p. p.) of Consecrate

Consecrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consecrate

Consecrate (v. t.) To make, or declare to be, sacred; to appropriate to sacred uses; to set apart, dedicate, or devote, to the service or worship of God; as, to consecrate a church; to give (one's self) unreservedly, as to the service of God.

Consecrate (v. t.) To set apart to a sacred office; as, to consecrate a bishop.

Consecrate (v. t.) To canonize; to exalt to the rank of a saint; to enroll among the gods, as a Roman emperor.

Consecrate (v. t.) To render venerable or revered; to hallow; to dignify; as, rules or principles consecrated by time.

Consecrater (n.) Consecrator.

Consecration (n.) The act or ceremony of consecrating; the state of being consecrated; dedication.

Consecrator (n.) One who consecrates; one who performs the rites by which a person or thing is devoted or dedicated to sacred purposes.

Consecratory (a.) Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory.

Consectaneous (a.) Following as a matter of course.

Consectary (a.) Following by consequence; consequent; deducible.

Consectary (n.) That which follows by consequence or is logically deducible; deduction from premises; corollary.

Consecute (v. t.) To follow closely; to endeavor to overtake; to pursue.

Consecution (n.) A following, or sequel; actual or logical dependence.

Consecution (n.) A succession or series of any kind.

Consecutive (a.) Following in a train; succeeding one another in a regular order; successive; uninterrupted in course or succession; with no interval or break; as, fifty consecutive years.

Consecutive (a.) Following as a consequence or result; actually or logically dependent; consequential; succeeding.

Consecutive (a.) Having similarity of sequence; -- said of certain parallel progressions of two parts in a piece of harmony; as, consecutive fifths, or consecutive octaves, which are forbidden.

Consecutively (adv.) In a consecutive manner; by way of sequence; successively.

Consecutiveness (n.) The state or quality of being consecutive.

Consension (n.) Agreement; accord.

Consensual (v. i.) Existing, or made, by the mutual consent of two or more parties.

Consensual (v. i.) Excited or caused by sensation, sympathy, or reflex action, and not by conscious volition; as, consensual motions.

Consensus (n.) Agreement; accord; consent.

Consented (imp. & p. p.) of Consent

Consenting (p. pr. & vb. n) of Consent

Consent (v. i.) To agree in opinion or sentiment; to be of the same mind; to accord; to concur.

Consent (v. i.) To indicate or express a willingness; to yield to guidance, persuasion, or necessity; to give assent or approval; to comply.

Consent (v. t.) To grant; to allow; to assent to; to admit.

Consent (n.) Agreement in opinion or sentiment; the being of one mind; accord.

Consent (n.) Correspondence in parts, qualities, or operations; agreement; harmony; coherence.

Consent (n.) Voluntary accordance with, or concurrence in, what is done or proposed by another; acquiescence; compliance; approval; permission.

Consent (n.) Capable, deliberate, and voluntary assent or agreement to, or concurrence in, some act or purpose, implying physical and mental power and free action.

Consent (n.) Sympathy. See Sympathy, 4.

Consentaneity (n.) Mutual agreement.

Consentaneous (a.) Consistent; agreeable; suitable; accordant to; harmonious; concurrent.

Consentant (a.) Consenting.

Consenter (a.) One who consents.

Consentient (a.) Agreeing in mind; accordant.

Consentingly (adv.) With consent; in a compliant manner.

Consequence (n.) That which follows something on which it depends; that which is produced by a cause; a result.

Consequence (n.) A proposition collected from the agreement of other previous propositions; any conclusion which results from reason or argument; inference.

Consequence (n.) Chain of causes and effects; consecution.

Consequence (n.) Importance with respect to what comes after; power to influence or produce an effect; value; moment; rank; distinction.

Consequencing (n.) Drawing inference.

Consequent (a.) Following as a result, inference, or natural effect.

Consequent (a.) Following by necessary inference or rational deduction; as, a proposition consequent to other propositions.

Consequent (n.) That which follows, or results from, a cause; a result or natural effect.

Consequent (n.) That which follows from propositions by rational deduction; that which is deduced from reasoning or argumentation; a conclusion, or inference.

Consequent (n.) The second term of a ratio, as the term b in the ratio a:b, the first a, being the antecedent.

Consequential (a.) Following as a consequence, result, or logical inference; consequent.

Consequential (a.) Assuming or exhibiting an air of consequence; pretending to importance; pompous; self-important; as, a consequential man. See Consequence, n., 4.

Consequentially (adv.) With just deduction of consequence; with right connection of ideas; logically.

Consequentially (adv.) By remote consequence; not immediately; eventually; as, to do a thing consequentially.

Consequentially (adv.) In a regular series; in the order of cause and effect; with logical concatenation; consecutively; continuously.

Consequentially (adv.) With assumed importance; pompously.

Consequentialness (n.) The quality of being consequential.

Consequently (adv.) By consequence; by natural or logical sequence or connection.

Consertion (n.) Junction; adaptation

Conservable (a.) Capable of being preserved from decay or injury.

Conservancy (n.) Conservation, as from injury, defilement, or irregular use.

Conservant (a.) Having the power or quality of conservation.

Conservation (n.) The act of preserving, guarding, or protecting; the keeping (of a thing) in a safe or entire state; preservation.

Conservational (a.) Tending to conserve; preservative.

Conservatism (n.) The disposition and tendency to preserve what is established; opposition to change; the habit of mind; or conduct, of a conservative.

Conservative (a.) Having power to preserve in a safe of entire state, or from loss, waste, or injury; preservative.

Conservative (a.) Tending or disposed to maintain existing institutions; opposed to change or innovation.

Conservative (a.) Of or pertaining to a political party which favors the conservation of existing institutions and forms of government, as the Conservative party in England; -- contradistinguished from Liberal and Radical.

Conservative (n.) One who, or that which, preserves from ruin, injury, innovation, or radical change; a preserver; a conserver.

Conservative (n.) One who desires to maintain existing institutions and customs; also, one who holds moderate opinions in politics; -- opposed to revolutionary or radical.

Conservative (n.) A member of the Conservative party.

Conservativeness (a.) The quality of being conservative.

Conservatoire (n.) A public place of instruction in any special branch, esp. music and the arts. [See Conservatory, 3].

Conservator (n.) One who preserves from injury or violation; a protector; a preserver.

Conservator (n.) An officer who has charge of preserving the public peace, as a justice or sheriff.

Conservator (n.) One who has an official charge of preserving the rights and privileges of a city, corporation, community, or estate.

Conservatory (a.) Having the quality of preserving from loss, decay, or injury.

Conservatory (n.) That which preserves from injury.

Conservatory (n.) A place for preserving anything from loss, decay, waste, or injury; particulary, a greenhouse for preserving exotic or tender plants.

Conservatory (n.) A public place of instruction, designed to preserve and perfect the knowledge of some branch of science or art, esp. music.

Conservatrix (n.) A woman who preserves from loss, injury, etc.

Conserved (imp. & p. p.) of Conserve

Conserving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conserve

Conserve (v. t.) To keep in a safe or sound state; to save; to preserve; to protect.

Conserve (v. t.) To prepare with sugar, etc., for the purpose of preservation, as fruits, etc.; to make a conserve of.

Conserve (n.) Anything which is conserved; especially, a sweetmeat prepared with sugar; a confection.

Conserve (n.) A medicinal confection made of freshly gathered vegetable substances mixed with finely powdered refined sugar. See Confection.

Conserve (n.) A conservatory.

Conserver (n.) One who conserves.

Considered (imp. & p. p.) of Consider

Considering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consider

Consider (v. t.) To fix the mind on, with a view to a careful examination; to think on with care; to ponder; to study; to meditate on.

Consider (v. t.) To look at attentively; to observe; to examine.

Consider (v. t.) To have regard to; to take into view or account; to pay due attention to; to respect.

Consider (v. t.) To estimate; to think; to regard; to view.

Consider (v. i.) To think seriously; to make examination; to reflect; to deliberate.

Consider (v. i.) To hesitate.

Considerable (a.) Worthy of consideration, borne in mind, or attended to.

Considerable (a.) Of some distinction; noteworthy; influential; respectable; -- said of persons.

Considerable (a.) Of importance or value.

Considerableness (n.) Worthiness of consideration; dignity; value; size; amount.

Considerably (adv.) In a manner or to a degree not trifling or unimportant; greatly; much.

Considerance (n.) Act of considering; consideration.

Considerate (a.) Given to consideration or to sober reflection; regardful of consequences or circumstances; circumspect; careful; esp. careful of the rights, claims, and feelings of other.

Considerate (a.) Having respect to; regardful.

Consideration (n.) The act or process of considering; continuous careful thought; examination; contemplation; deliberation; attention.

Consideration (n.) Attentive respect; appreciative regard; -- used especially in diplomatic or stately correspondence.

Consideration (n.) Thoughtful or sympathetic regard or notice.

Consideration (n.) Claim to notice or regard; some degree of importance or consequence.

Consideration (n.) The result of delibration, or of attention and examonation; matured opinion; a reflection; as, considerations on the choice of a profession.

Consideration (n.) That which is, or should be, taken into account as a ground of opinion or action; motive; reason.

Consideration (n.) The cause which moves a contracting party to enter into an agreement; the material cause of a contract; the price of a stripulation; compensation; equivalent.

Considerative (a.) Considerate; careful; thoughtful.

Considerator (n.) One who considers.

Considerer (n.) One who considers; a man of reflection; a thinker.

Consideringly (adv.) With consideration or deliberation.

Consigned (imp. & p. p.) of Consign

Consigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consign

Consign (v. t.) To give, transfer, or deliver, in a formal manner, as if by signing over into the possession of another, or into a different state, with the sense of fixedness in that state, or permanence of possession; as, to consign the body to the grave.

Consign (v. t.) To give in charge; to commit; to intrust.

Consign (v. t.) To send or address (by bill of lading or otherwise) to an agent or correspondent in another place, to be cared for or sold, or for the use of such correspondent; as, to consign a cargo or a ship; to consign goods.

Consign (v. t.) To assign; to devote; to set apart.

Consign (v. t.) To stamp or impress; to affect.

Consign (v. i.) To submit; to surrender or yield one's self.

Consign (v. i.) To yield consent; to agree; to acquiesce.

Consignatary (n.) A consignee.

Consignation (n.) The act of consigning; the act of delivering or committing to another person, place, or state.

Consignation (n.) The act of ratifying or establishing, as if by signing; confirmation; ratification.

Consignation (n.) A stamp; an indication; a sign.

Consignatory (n.) One of several that jointly sign a written instrument, as a treaty.

Consignature (n.) Joint signature.

Consigne (n.) A countersign; a watchword.

Consigne (n.) One who is orders to keep within certain limits.

Consignee (n.) The person to whom goods or other things are consigned; a factor; -- correlative to consignor.

Consigner (n.) One who consigns. See Consignor.

Consignificant (a.) Having joint or equal signification; synonymous.

Consignification (n.) Joint signification.

Consignificative (a.) Consignificant; jointly significate.

Consignify (v. t.) To signify or denote in combination with something else.

Consignment (n.) The act of consigning; consignation.

Consignment (n.) The act of consigning or sending property to an agent or correspondent in another place, as for care, sale, etc.

Consignment (n.) That which is consigned; the goods or commodities sent or addressed to a consignee at one time or by one conveyance.

Consignment (n.) The writing by which anything is consigned.

Consignor (n.) One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee.

Consilience (n.) Act of concurring; coincidence; concurrence.

Consimilitude (n.) Alt. of Consimility

Consimility (n.) Common resemblance.

Consisted (imp. & p. p.) of Consist

Consisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consist

Consist (v. i.) To stand firm; to be in a fixed or permanent state, as a body composed of parts in union or connection; to hold together; to be; to exist; to subsist; to be supported and maintained.

Consist (v. i.) To be composed or made up; -- followed by of.

Consist (v. i.) To have as its substance or character, or as its foundation; to be; -- followed by in.

Consist (v. i.) To be consistent or harmonious; to be in accordance; -- formerly used absolutely, now followed by with.

Consist (v. i.) To insist; -- followed by on.

Consistence (n.) Alt. of Consistency

Consistency (n.) The condition of standing or adhering together, or being fixed in union, as the parts of a body; existence; firmness; coherence; solidity.

Consistency (n.) A degree of firmness, density, or spissitude.

Consistency (n.) That which stands together as a united whole; a combination.

Consistency (n.) Firmness of constitution or character; substantiality; durability; persistency.

Consistency (n.) Agreement or harmony of all parts of a complex thing among themselves, or of the same thing with itself at different times; the harmony of conduct with profession; congruity; correspondence; as, the consistency of laws, regulations, or judicial decisions; consistency of opinions; consistency of conduct or of character.

Consistent (a.) Possessing firmness or fixedness; firm; hard; solid.

Consistent (a.) Having agreement with itself or with something else; having harmony among its parts; possesing unity; accordant; harmonious; congruous; compatible; uniform; not contradictory.

Consistent (a.) Living or acting in conformity with one's belief or professions.

Consistently (adv.) In a consistent manner.

Consistorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a consistory.

Consistorian (a.) Pertaining to a Presbyterian consistory; -- a contemptuous term of 17th century controversy.

Consistories (pl. ) of Consistory

Consistory (n.) Primarily, a place of standing or staying together; hence, any solemn assembly or council.

Consistory (n.) The spiritual court of a diocesan bishop held before his chancellor or commissioner in his cathedral church or elsewhere.

Consistory (n.) An assembly of prelates; a session of the college of cardinals at Rome.

Consistory (n.) A church tribunal or governing body.

Consistory (n.) A civil court of justice.

Consistory (a.) Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a consistory.

Consociate (n.) An associate; an accomplice.

Consociated (imp. & p. p.) of Consociate

Consociating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consociate

Consociate (v. t.) To bring into alliance, confederacy, or relationship; to bring together; to join; to unite.

Consociate (v. t.) To unite in an ecclesiastical consociation.

Consociate (v. i.) To be allied, confederated, or associated; to coalescence.

Consociate (v. i.) To form an ecclesiastical consociation.

Consociation (n.) Intimate union; fellowship; alliance; companionship; confederation; association; intimacy.

Consociation (n.) A voluntary and permanent council or union of neighboring Congregational churches, for mutual advice and cooperation in ecclesiastical matters; a meeting of pastors and delegates from churches thus united.

Consociational (a.) Of or pertaining to a consociation.

Consolable (a.) Capable of receiving consolation.

Consolate (v. t.) To console; to comfort.

Consolation (n.) The act of consoling; the state of being consoled; allevation of misery or distress of mind; refreshment of spirit; comfort; that which consoles or comforts the spirit.

Consolato del mare () A collection of maritime laws of disputed origin, supposed to have been first published at Barcelona early in the 14th century. It has formed the basis of most of the subsequent collections of maritime laws.

Consolator (n.) One who consoles or comforts.

Consolatory (a.) Of a consoling or comforting nature.

Consolatory (n.) That which consoles; a speech or writing intended for consolation.

Consoled (imp. & p. p.) of Console

Consoling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Console

Console (v. t.) To cheer in distress or depression; to alleviate the grief and raise the spirits of; to relieve; to comfort; to soothe.

Console (n.) A bracket whose projection is not more than half its height.

Console (n.) Any small bracket; also, a console table.

Consoler (n.) One who gives consolation.

Consolidant (a.) Serving to unite or consolidate; having the quality of consolidating or making firm.

Consolidate (a.) Formed into a solid mass; made firm; consolidated.

Consolidated (imp. & p. p.) of Consolidate

Consolidating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consolidate

Consolidate (v. t.) To make solid; to unite or press together into a compact mass; to harden or make dense and firm.

Consolidate (v. t.) To unite, as various particulars, into one mass or body; to bring together in close union; to combine; as, to consolidate the armies of the republic.

Consolidate (v. t.) To unite by means of applications, as the parts of a broken bone, or the lips of a wound.

Consolidate (v. i.) To grow firm and hard; to unite and become solid; as, moist clay consolidates by drying.

Consolidated (p. p. & a.) Made solid, hard, or compact; united; joined; solidified.

Consolidated (p. p. & a.) Having a small surface in proportion to bulk, as in the cactus.

Consolidation (n.) The act or process of consolidating, making firm, or uniting; the state of being consolidated; solidification; combination.

Consolidation (n.) To organic cohesion of different circled in a flower; adnation.

Consolidation (n.) The combination of several actions into one.

Consolidative (a.) Tending or having power to consolidate; healing.

Consoling (a.) Adapted to console or comfort; cheering; as, this is consoling news.

Consols (n. pl. ) The leading British funded government security.

Consomme (n.) A clear soup or bouillion boiled down so as to be very rich.

Consonance (n.) Alt. of Consonancy

Consonancy (n.) Accord or agreement of sounds produced simultaneously, as a note with its third, fifth, and eighth.

Consonancy (n.) Agreement or congruity; harmony; accord; consistency; suitableness.

Consonancy (n.) Friendship; concord.

Consonant (a.) Having agreement; congruous; consistent; according; -- usually followed by with or to.

Consonant (a.) Having like sounds.

Consonant (a.) harmonizing together; accordant; as, consonant tones, consonant chords.

Consonant (a.) Of or pertaining to consonants; made up of, or containing many, consonants.

Consonant (n.) An articulate sound which in utterance is usually combined and sounded with an open sound called a vowel; a member of the spoken alphabet other than a vowel; also, a letter or character representing such a sound.

Consonantal (a.) Of the nature of a consonant; pertaining to consonants.

Consonantize (v. t.) To change into, or use as, a consonant.

Consonantly (adv.) In a consonant, consistent, or congruous manner; agreeably.

Consonantness (n.) The quality or condition of being consonant, agreeable, or consistent.

Consonous (a.) Agreeing in sound; symphonious.

Consopiation (n.) The act of sleeping, or of lulling, to sleep.

Consopite (a.) Lulled to sleep.

Consopite (v. t.) To lull to sleep; to quiet; to compose.

Consort (n.) One who shares the lot of another; a companion; a partner; especially, a wife or husband.

Consort (n.) A ship keeping company with another.

Consort (n.) Concurrence; conjunction; combination; association; union.

Consort (n.) An assembly or association of persons; a company; a group; a combination.

Consort (n.) Harmony of sounds; concert, as of musical instruments.

Consorted (imp. & p. p.) of Consort

Consorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consort

Consort (v. i.) To unite or to keep company; to associate; -- used with with.

Consort (v. t.) To unite or join, as in affection, harmony, company, marriage, etc.; to associate.

Consort (v. t.) To attend; to accompany.

Consortable (a.) Suitable for association or companionship.

Consortion (n.) Fellowship; association; companionship.

Consortship (n.) The condition of a consort; fellowship; partnership.

Consound (n.) A name applied loosely to several plants of different genera, esp. the comfrey.

Conspecific (a.) Of the same species.

Conspectuities (pl. ) of Conspectuity

Conspectuity (n.) The faculty of seeing; sight; eye.

Conspectus (n.) A general sketch or outline of a subject; a synopsis; an epitome.

Conspersion (n.) The act of sprinkling.

Conspicuity (n.) The state or quality of being clear or bright; brightness; conspicuousness.

Conspicuous (a.) Open to the view; obvious to the eye; easy to be seen; plainly visible; manifest; attracting the eye.

Conspicuous (a.) Obvious to the mental eye; easily recognized; clearly defined; notable; prominent; eminent; distinguished; as, a conspicuous excellence, or fault.

Conspiracies (pl. ) of Conspiracy

Conspiracy (n.) A combination of men for an evil purpose; an agreement, between two or more persons, to commit a crime in concert, as treason; a plot.

Conspiracy (n.) A concurence or general tendency, as of circumstances, to one event, as if by agreement.

Conspiracy (n.) An agreement, manifesting itself in words or deeds, by which two or more persons confederate to do an unlawful act, or to use unlawful to do an act which is lawful; confederacy.

Conspirant (a.) Engaging in a plot to commit a crime; conspiring.

Conspiration (n.) Agreement or concurrence for some end or purpose; conspiracy.

Conspirator (n.) One who engages in a conspiracy; a plotter.

Conspired (imp. & p. p.) of Conspire

Conspiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conspire

Conspire (v. i.) To make an agreement, esp. a secret agreement, to do some act, as to commit treason or a crime, or to do some unlawful deed; to plot together.

Conspire (v. i.) To concur to one end; to agree.

Conspire (v. t.) To plot; to plan; to combine for.

Conspirer (n.) One who conspires; a conspirator.

Conspiringly (adv.) In the manner of a conspirator; by conspiracy.

Conspissation (n.) A making thick or viscous; thickness; inspissation.

Conspurcate (v. t.) To pollute; to defile.

Conspurcation (n.) The act of defiling; defilement; pollution.

Constable (n.) A high officer in the monarchical establishments of the Middle Ages.

Constable (n.) An officer of the peace having power as a conservator of the public peace, and bound to execute the warrants of judicial officers.

Constablery (n.) The constabulary.

Constablery (n.) The district or jurisdiction of a constable.

Constableship (n.) The office or functions of a constable.

Constabless (n.) The wife of a constable.

Constablewick (n.) The district to which a constable's power is limited.

Constabulary (a.) Of or pertaining to constables; consisting of constables.

Constabulary (n.) The collective body of constables in any town, district, or country.

Constabulatory (n.) A constabulary.

Constancy (n.) The state or quality of being constant or steadfast; freedom from change; stability; fixedness; immutability; as, the constancy of God in his nature and attributes.

Constancy (n.) Fixedness or firmness of mind; persevering resolution; especially, firmness of mind under sufferings, steadiness in attachments, or perseverance in enterprise; stability; fidelity.

Constant (v. t.) Firm; solid; fixed; immovable; -- opposed to fluid.

Constant (v. t.) Not liable, or given, to change; permanent; regular; continuous; continually recurring; steadfast; faithful; not fickle.

Constant (v. t.) Remaining unchanged or invariable, as a quantity, force, law, etc.

Constant (v. t.) Consistent; logical.

Constant (n.) That which is not subject to change; that which is invariable.

Constant (n.) A quantity that does not change its value; -- used in countradistinction to variable.

Constantia (n.) A superior wine, white and red, from Constantia, in Cape Colony.

Constantly (adv.) With constancy; steadily; continually; perseveringly; without cessation; uniformly.

Constat (n.) A certificate showing what appears upon record touching a matter in question.

Constate (v. t.) To ascertain; to verify; to establish; to prove.

Constellate (v. i. ) To join luster; to shine with united radiance, or one general light.

Constellate (v. t.) To unite in one luster or radiance, as stars.

Constellate (v. t.) To set or adorn with stars or constellations; as, constellated heavens.

Constellation (n.) A cluster or group of fixed stars, or dvision of the heavens, designated in most cases by the name of some animal, or of some mythologial personage, within whose imaginary outline, as traced upon the heavens, the group is included.

Constellation (n.) An assemblage of splendors or excellences.

Constellation (n.) Fortune; fate; destiny.

Consternation (n.) Amazement or horror that confounds the faculties, and incapacitates for reflection; terror, combined with amazement; dismay.

Constipated (imp. & p. p.) of Constipate

Constipating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constipate

Constipate (v. t.) To crowd or cram into a narrow compass; to press together or condense.

Constipate (v. t.) To stop (a channel) by filling it, and preventing passage through it; as, to constipate the capillary vessels.

Constipate (v. t.) To render costive; to cause constipation in.

Constipation (n.) Act of crowding anything into a less compass, or the state of being crowded or pressed together; condensation.

Constipation (n.) A state of the bowels in which the evacuations are infrequent and difficult, or the intestines become filled with hardened faeces; costiveness.

Constituencies (pl. ) of Constituency

Constituency (n.) A body of constituents, as the body of citizens or voters in a representative district.

Constituent (a.) Serving to form, compose, or make up; elemental; component.

Constituent (a.) Having the power of electing or appointing.

Constituent (n.) The person or thing which constitutes, determines, or constructs.

Constituent (n.) That which constitutes or composes, as a part, or an essential part; a component; an element.

Constituent (n.) One for whom another acts; especially, one who is represented by another in a legislative assembly; -- correlative to representative.

Constituent (n.) A person who appoints another to act for him as attorney in fact.

Constituted (imp. & p. p.) of Constitute

Constituting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constitute

Constitute (v. t.) To cause to stand; to establish; to enact.

Constitute (v. t.) To make up; to compose; to form.

Constitute (v. t.) To appoint, depute, or elect to an office; to make and empower.

Constitute (n.) An established law.

Constituter (n.) One who constitutes or appoints.

Constitution (n.) The act or process of constituting; the action of enacting, establishing, or appointing; enactment; establishment; formation.

Constitution (n.) The state of being; that form of being, or structure and connection of parts, which constitutes and characterizes a system or body; natural condition; structure; texture; conformation.

Constitution (n.) The aggregate of all one's inherited physical qualities; the aggregate of the vital powers of an individual, with reference to ability to endure hardship, resist disease, etc.; as, a robust constitution.

Constitution (n.) The aggregate of mental qualities; temperament.

Constitution (n.) The fundamental, organic law or principles of government of men, embodied in written documents, or implied in the institutions and usages of the country or society; also, a written instrument embodying such organic law, and laying down fundamental rules and principles for the conduct of affairs.

Constitution (n.) An authoritative ordinance, regulation or enactment; especially, one made by a Roman emperor, or one affecting ecclesiastical doctrine or discipline; as, the constitutions of Justinian.

Constitutional (a.) Belonging to, or inherent in, the constitution, or in the structure of body or mind; as, a constitutional infirmity; constitutional ardor or dullness.

Constitutional (a.) In accordance with, or authorized by, the constitution of a state or a society; as, constitutional reforms.

Constitutional (a.) Regulated by, dependent on, or secured by, a constitution; as, constitutional government; constitutional rights.

Constitutional (a.) Relating to a constitution, or establishment form of government; as, a constitutional risis.

Constitutional (a.) For the benefit or one's constitution or health; as, a constitutional walk.

Constitutional (n.) A walk or other exercise taken for one's health or constitution.

Constitutionalism (n.) The theory, principles, or authority of constitutional government; attachment or adherence to a constitution or constitutional government.

Constitutionalist (n.) One who advocates a constitutional form of government; a constitutionalist.

ties (pl. ) of Constitutionality

Constitutionality (n.) The quality or state of being constitutional, or inherent in the natural frame.

Constitutionality (n.) The state of being consistent with the constitution or frame of government, or of being authorized by its provisions.

Constitutionally (adv.) In accordance with the constitution or natural disposition of the mind or body; naturally; as, he was constitutionally timid.

Constitutionally (adv.) In accordance with the constitution or fundamental law; legally; as, he was not constitutionally appointed.

Constitutionist (n.) One who adheres to the constitution of the country.

Constitutive (a.) Tending or assisting to constitute or compose; elemental; essential.

Constitutive (a.) Having power to enact, establish, or create; instituting; determining.

Constitutively (adv.) In a constitutive manner.

Constrained (imp. & p. p.) of Constrain

Constraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constrain

Constrain (v. t.) To secure by bonds; to chain; to bond or confine; to hold tightly; to constringe.

Constrain (v. t.) To bring into a narrow compass; to compress.

Constrain (v. t.) To hold back by force; to restrain; to repress.

Constrain (v. t.) To compel; to force; to necessitate; to oblige.

Constrain (v. t.) To violate; to ravish.

Constrain (v. t.) To produce in such a manner as to give an unnatural effect; as, a constrained voice.

Constrainable (a.) Capable of being constrained; liable to constraint, or to restraint.

Constrained (a.) Marked by constraint; not free; not voluntary; embarrassed; as, a constrained manner; a constrained tone.

Constrainedly (adv.) By constraint or compulsion; in a constrained manner.

Constrainer (n.) One who constrains.

Constraint (n.) The act of constraining, or the state of being constrained; that which compels to, or restrains from, action; compulsion; restraint; necessity.

Constraintive (a.) Constraining; compulsory.

Constricted (imp. & p. p.) of Constrict

Constricting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constrict

Constrict (v. t.) To draw together; to render narrower or smaller; to bind; to cramp; to contract or cause to shrink.

Constricted (a.) Drawn together; bound; contracted; cramped.

Constricted (a.) Contracted or compressed so as to be smaller in certain places or parts than in others.

Constriction (n.) The act of constricting by means of some inherent power or by movement or change in the thing itself, as distinguished from compression.

Constriction (n.) The state of being constricted; the point where a thing is constricted; a narrowing or binding.

Constrictive (a.) Serving or tending to bind or constrict.

Constrictor (n.) That which constricts, draws together, or contracts.

Constrictor (n.) A muscle which contracts or closes an orifice, or which compresses an organ; a sphincter.

Constrictor (n.) A serpent that kills its prey by inclosing and crushing it with its folds; as, the boa constrictor.

Constringed (imp. & p. p.) of Constringe

Constringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constringe

Constringe (v. t.) To dawn together; to contract; to force to contract itself; to constrict; to cause to shrink.

Constringent (a.) Having the quality of contracting, binding, or compressing.

Constructed (imp. & p. p.) of Construct

Constructing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Construct

Construct (v. t.) To put together the constituent parts of (something) in their proper place and order; to build; to form; to make; as, to construct an edifice.

Construct (v. t.) To devise; to invent; to set in order; to arrange; as, to construct a theory of ethics.

Construct (a.) Formed by, or relating to, construction, interpretation, or inference.

Constructer (n.) One who, or that which, constructs or frames.

Construction (n.) The process or art of constructing; the act of building; erection; the act of devising and forming; fabrication; composition.

Construction (n.) The form or manner of building or putting together the parts of anything; structure; arrangement.

Construction (n.) The arrangement and connection of words in a sentence; syntactical arrangement.

Construction (n.) The method of construing, interpreting, or explaining a declaration or fact; an attributed sense or meaning; understanding; explanation; interpretation; sense.

Constructional (a.) Pertaining to, or deduced from, construction or interpretation.

Constructionist (n.) One who puts a certain construction upon some writing or instrument, as the Constitutions of the United States; as, a strict constructionist; a broad constructionist.

Constructive (a.) Having ability to construct or form; employed in construction; as, to exhibit constructive power.

Constructive (a.) Derived from, or depending on, construction or interpretation; not directly expressed, but inferred.

Constructively (adv.) In a constructive manner; by construction or inference.

Constructiveness (n.) Tendency or ability to form or construct.

Constructiveness (n.) The faculty which enables one to construct, as in mechanical, artistic, or literary matters.

Constructor (n.) A constructer.

Constructure (n.) That which is constructed or formed; an edifice; a fabric.

Construed (imp. & p. p.) of Construe

Construing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Construe

Construe (v. t. ) To apply the rules of syntax to (a sentence or clause) so as to exhibit the structure, arrangement, or connection of, or to discover the sense; to explain the construction of; to interpret; to translate.

Construe (v. t. ) To put a construction upon; to explain the sense or intention of; to interpret; to understand.

Construprated (imp. & p. p.) of Constuprate

Constuprating (p. p. & vb. n.) of Constuprate

Constuprate (v. t.) To ravish; to debauch.

Constupration (n.) The act of ravishing; violation; defilement.

Consubstantial (a.) Of the same kind or nature; having the same substance or essence; coessential.

Consubstantialism (n.) The doctrine of consubstantiation.

Consubstantialist (n.) One who believes in consubstantiation.

Consubstantiality (n.) Participation of the same nature; coexistence in the same substance.

Consubstantially (adv.) In a consubstantial manner; with identity of substance or nature.

Consubstantiated (imp. & p. p.) of Consubstantiate

Consubstantiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consubstantiate

Consubstantiate (v. t. ) To cause to unite, or to regard as united, in one common substance or nature.

Consubstantiate (v. i.) To profess or belive the doctrine of consubstantion.

Consubstantiate (a.) Partaking of the same substance; united; consubstantial.

Consubstantiation (n.) An identity or union of substance.

Consubstantiation (n.) The actual, substantial presence of the body of Christ with the bread and wine of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; impanation; -- opposed to transubstantiation.

Consuetude (n.) Custom, habit; usage.

Consuetudinal (a.) According to custom; customary; usual.

Consuetudinary (a.) Customary.

Consuetudinaries (pl. ) of Cussuetudinary

Cussuetudinary (n.) A manual or ritual of customary devotional exercises.

Consul (n.) One of the two chief magistrates of the republic.

Consul (n.) A senator; a counselor.

Consul (n.) One of the three chief magistrates of France from 1799 to 1804, who were called, respectively, first, second, and third consul.

Consul (n.) An official commissioned to reside in some foreign country, to care for the commercial interests of the citizens of the appointing government, and to protect its seamen.

Consulage (n.) A duty or tax paid by merchants for the protection of their commerce by means of a consul in a foreign place.

Consular (a.) Of or pertaining to a consul; performing the duties of a consul; as, consular power; consular dignity; consular officers.

Consulary (a.) Consular.

Consulate (n.) The office of a consul.

Consulate (n.) The jurisdiction or residence of a consul.

Consulate (n.) Consular government; term of office of a consul.

Consulship (n.) The office of a consul; consulate.

Consulship (n.) The term of office of a consul.

Consulted (imp. & p. p.) of Consult

Consulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consult

Consult (v. i.) To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take counsel; to deliberate together; to confer.

Consult (v. t.) To ask advice of; to seek the opinion of; to apply to for information or instruction; to refer to; as, to consult a physician; to consult a dictionary.

Consult (v. t.) To have reference to, in judging or acting; to have regard to; to consider; as, to consult one's wishes.

Consult (v. t.) To deliberate upon; to take for.

Consult (v. t.) To bring about by counsel or contrivance; to devise; to contrive.

Consult (n.) The act of consulting or deliberating; consultation; also, the result of consulation; determination; decision.

Consult (n.) A council; a meeting for consultation.

Consult (n.) Agreement; concert

Consultary (a.) Formed by consultation; resulting from conference.

Consultation (n.) The act of consulting or conferring; deliberation of two or more persons on some matter, with a view to a decision.

Consultation (n.) A council or conference, as of physicians, held to consider a special case, or of lawyers restained in a cause.

Consultative (a.) Pertaining to consultation; having the privilege or right of conference.

Consultatory (a.) Formed by, or resulting from, consultation; advisory.

Consulter (n.) One who consults, or asks counsel or information.

Consulting (a.) That consults.

Consultive (a.) Determined by, or pertaining to, consultation; deliberate; consultative.

Consumable (a.) Capable of being consumed; that may be destroyed, dissipated, wasted, or spent.

Consumed (imp. & p. p.) of Consume

Consuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consume

Consume (v. t.) To destroy, as by decomposition, dissipation, waste, or fire; to use up; to expend; to waste; to burn up; to eat up; to devour.

Consume (v. i.) To waste away slowly.

Consumedly (adv.) Excessively.

Consumer (n.) One who, or that which, consumes; as, the consumer of food.

Consumingly (adv.) In a consuming manner.

Consummate (a.) Carried to the utmost extent or degree; of the highest quality; complete; perfect.

Consummated (imp. & p. p.) of Consummate

Consummating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consummate

Consummate (v. t. ) To bring to completion; to raise to the highest point or degree; to complete; to finish; to perfect; to achieve.

Consummately (adv.) In a consummate manner; completely.

Consummation (n.) The act of consummating, or the state of being consummated; completed; completion; perfection; termination; end (as of the world or of life).

Consummative (a.) Serving to consummate; completing.

Consumption (n.) The act or process of consuming by use, waste, etc.; decay; destruction.

Consumption (n.) The state or process of being consumed, wasted, or diminished; waste; diminution; loss; decay.

Consumption (n.) A progressive wasting away of the body; esp., that form of wasting, attendant upon pulmonary phthisis and associated with cough, spitting of blood, hectic fever, etc.; pulmonary phthisis; -- called also pulmonary consumption.

Consumptive (a.) Of or pertaining to consumption; having the quality of consuming, or dissipating; destructive; wasting.

Consumptive (a.) Affected with, or inclined to, consumption.

Consumptive (n.) One affected with consumption; as, a resort for consumptives.

Consumptively (adv.) In a way tending to or indication consumption.

Consumptiveness (n.) A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption.

Contabescent (a.) Wasting away gradually.

Contact (n.) A close union or junction of bodies; a touching or meeting.

Contact (n.) The property of two curves, or surfaces, which meet, and at the point of meeting have a common direction.

Contact (n.) The plane between two adjacent bodies of dissimilar rock.

Contaction (n.) Act of touching.

Contagion (n.) The transmission of a disease from one person to another, by direct or indirect contact.

Contagion (n.) That which serves as a medium or agency to transmit disease; a virus produced by, or exhalation proceeding from, a diseased person, and capable of reproducing the disease.

Contagion (n.) The act or means of communicating any influence to the mind or heart; as, the contagion of enthusiasm.

Contagion (n.) Venom; poison.

Contagioned (a.) Affected by contagion.

Contagionist (n.) One who believes in the contagious character of certain diseases, as of yellow fever.

Contagious (a.) Communicable by contact, by a virus, or by a bodily exhalation; catching; as, a contagious disease.

Contagious (a.) Conveying or generating disease; pestilential; poisonous; as, contagious air.

Contagious (a.) Spreading or communicable from one to another; exciting similar emotions or conduct in others.

Contagiously (adv.) In a contagious manner.

Contagiousness (n.) Quality of being contagious.

Contagium (n.) Contagion; contagious matter.

Contained (imp. & p. p.) of Contain

Containing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contain

Contain (v. t.) To hold within fixed limits; to comprise; to include; to inclose; to hold.

Contain (v. t.) To have capacity for; to be able to hold; to hold; to be equivalent to; as, a bushel contains four pecks.

Contain (v. t.) To put constraint upon; to restrain; to confine; to keep within bounds.

Contain (v. i.) To restrain desire; to live in continence or chastity.

Containable (a.) Capable of being contained or comprised.

Containant (n.) A container.

Container (n.) One who, or that which, contains.

Containment (n.) That which is contained; the extent; the substance.

Contaminable (a.) Capable of being contaminated.

Contaminated (imp. & p. p.) of Contaminate

Contaminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contaminate

Contaminate (v. t.) To soil, stain, or corrupt by contact; to tarnish; to sully; to taint; to pollute; to defile.

Contaminate (a.) Contaminated; defiled; polluted; tainted.

Contamination (n.) The act or process of contaminating; pollution; defilement; taint; also, that which contaminates.

Contamitive (a.) Tending or liable to contaminate.

Contangoes (pl. ) of Contango

Contango (n.) The premium or interest paid by the buyer to the seller, to be allowed to defer paying for the stock purchased until the next fortnightly settlement day.

Contango (n.) The postponement of payment by the buyer of stock on the payment of a premium to the seller. See Backwardation.

Contection (n.) A covering.

Contek (n.) Quarrel; contention; contest.

Contek (n.) Contumely; reproach.

Contemned (imp. & p. p.) of Contemn

Contemning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contemn

Contemn (v. t.) To view or treat with contempt, as mean and despicable; to reject with disdain; to despise; to scorn.

Contemner (n.) One who contemns; a despiser; a scorner.

Contemningly (adv.) Contemptuously.

Contemper (v. t.) To modify or temper; to allay; to qualify; to moderate; to soften.

Contemperate (v. t.) To temper; to moderate.

Contemperation (n.) The act of tempering or moderating.

Contemperation (n.) Proportionate mixture or combination.

Contemperature (n.) The condition of being tempered; proportionate mixture; temperature.

Contemplance (n.) Contemplation.

Contemplant (a.) Given to contemplation; meditative.

Contemplated (imp. & p. p.) of Contemplate

Contemplating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contemplate

Contemplate (v. t.) To look at on all sides or in all its bearings; to view or consider with continued attention; to regard with deliberate care; to meditate on; to study.

Contemplate (v. t.) To consider or have in view, as contingent or probable; to look forward to; to purpose; to intend.

Contemplate (v. i.) To consider or think studiously; to ponder; to reflect; to muse; to meditate.

Contemplation (n.) The act of the mind in considering with attention; continued attention of the mind to a particular subject; meditation; musing; study.

Contemplation (n.) Holy meditation.

Contemplation (n.) The act of looking forward to an event as about to happen; expectation; the act of intending or purposing.

Contemplatist (n.) A contemplator.

Contemplative (a.) Pertaining to contemplation; addicted to, or employed in, contemplation; meditative.

Contemplative (a.) Having the power of contemplation; as, contemplative faculties.

Contemplative (n.) A religious or either sex devoted to prayer and meditation, rather than to active works of charity.

Contemplatively (adv.) With contemplation; in a contemplative manner.

Contemplativeness (n.) The state of being contemplative; thoughtfulness.

Contemplator (n.) One who contemplates.

Contemporaneity (n.) The state of being contemporaneous.

Contemporaneous (a.) Living, existing, or occurring at the same time; contemporary.

Contemporaneously (adv.) At the same time with some other event.

Contemporariness (n.) Existence at the same time; contemporaneousness.

Contemporary (a.) Living, occuring, or existing, at the same time; done in, or belonging to, the same times; contemporaneous.

Contemporary (a.) Of the same age; coeval.

Contemporaries (pl. ) of Contemporary

Contemporary (n.) One who lives at the same time with another; as, Petrarch and Chaucer were contemporaries.

Contempt (n.) The act of contemning or despising; the feeling with which one regards that which is esteemed mean, vile, or worthless; disdain; scorn.

Contempt (n.) The state of being despised; disgrace; shame.

Contempt (n.) An act or expression denoting contempt.

Contempt (n.) Disobedience of the rules, orders, or process of a court of justice, or of rules or orders of a legislative body; disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent language or behavior in presence of a court, tending to disturb its proceedings, or impair the respect due to its authority.

Contemptibility (n.) The quality of being contemptible; contemptibleness.

Contemptible (a.) Worthy of contempt; deserving of scorn or disdain; mean; vile; despicable.

Contemptible (a.) Despised; scorned; neglected; abject.

Contemptible (a.) Insolent; scornful; contemptuous.

Contemptibleness (n.) The state or quality of being contemptible, or of being despised.

Contemptibly (adv.) In a contemptible manner.

Contemptuous (a.) Manifesting or expressing contempt or disdain; scornful; haughty; insolent; disdainful.

Contemptuously (adv.) In a contemptuous manner; with scorn or disdain; despitefully.

Contemptuousness (n.) Disposition to or manifestion of contempt; insolence; haughtiness.

Contended (imp. & p. p.) of Contend

Contending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contend

Contend (v. i.) To strive in opposition; to contest; to dispute; to vie; to quarrel; to fight.

Contend (v. i.) To struggle or exert one's self to obtain or retain possession of, or to defend.

Contend (v. i.) To strive in debate; to engage in discussion; to dispute; to argue.

Contend (v. t.) To struggle for; to contest.

Contendent (n.) An antagonist; a contestant.

Contender (n.) One who contends; a contestant.

Contendress (n.) A female contestant.

Contenement (n.) That which is held together with another thing; that which is connected with a tenement, or thing holden, as a certain quantity of land adjacent to a dwelling, and necessary to the reputable enjoyment of the dwelling; appurtenance.

Content (a.) Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited by that which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied; contented; at rest.

Contents (pl. ) of Content

Content (n.) That which is contained; the thing or things held by a receptacle or included within specified limits; as, the contents of a cask or bale or of a room; the contents of a book.

Content (n.) Power of containing; capacity; extent; size.

Content (n.) Area or quantity of space or matter contained within certain limits; as, solid contents; superficial contents.

Content (a.) To satisfy the desires of; to make easy in any situation; to appease or quiet; to gratify; to please.

Content (a.) To satisfy the expectations of; to pay; to requite.

Content (n.) Rest or quietness of the mind in one's present condition; freedom from discontent; satisfaction; contentment; moderate happiness.

Content (n.) Acquiescence without examination.

Content (n.) That which contents or satisfies; that which if attained would make one happy.

Content (n.) An expression of assent to a bill or motion; an affirmative vote; also, a member who votes Content..

Contentation (n.) Content; satisfaction.

Contented (a.) Content; easy in mind; satisfied; quiet; willing.

Contentful (a.) Full of content.

Contention (n.) A violent effort or struggle to obtain, or to resist, something; contest; strife.

Contention (n.) Strife in words; controversy; altercation; quarrel; dispute; as, a bone of contention.

Contention (n.) Vehemence of endeavor; eagerness; ardor; zeal.

Contention (n.) A point maintained in an argument, or a line of argument taken in its support; the subject matter of discussion or strife; a position taken or contended for.

Contentious (a.) Fond of contention; given to angry debate; provoking dispute or contention; quarrelsome.

Contentious (a.) Relating to contention or strife; involving or characterized by contention.

Contentious (a.) Contested; litigated; litigious; having power to decide controversy.

Contentless (a.) Discontented; dissatisfied.

Contently (adv.) In a contented manner.

Contentment (v. t.) The state of being contented or satisfied; content.

Contentment (v. t.) The act or process of contenting or satisfying; as, the contentment of avarice is impossible.

Contentment (v. t.) Gratification; pleasure; satisfaction.

Contents (n. pl.) See Content, n.

Conterminable (a.) Having the same bounds; terminating at the same time or place; conterminous.

Conterminal (a.) Conterminous.

Conterminant (a.) Having the same limits; ending at the same time; conterminous.

Conterminate (a.) Having the same bounds; conterminous.

Conterminous (a.) Having the same bounds, or limits; bordering upon; contiguous.

Conterranean (a.) Alt. of Conterraneous

Conterraneous (a.) Of or belonging to the same country.

Contesseration (n.) An assemblage; a collection; harmonious union.

Contested (imp. & p. p.) of Contest

Contesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contest

Contest (v. t.) To make a subject of dispute, contention, litigation, or emulation; to contend for; to call in question; to controvert; to oppose; to dispute.

Contest (v. t.) To strive earnestly to hold or maintain; to struggle to defend; as, the troops contested every inch of ground.

Contest (v. t.) To make a subject of litigation; to defend, as a suit; to dispute or resist; as a claim, by course of law; to controvert.

Contest (v. i.) To engage in contention, or emulation; to contend; to strive; to vie; to emulate; -- followed usually by with.

Contest (n.) Earnest dispute; strife in argument; controversy; debate; altercation.

Contest (n.) Earnest struggle for superiority, victory, defense, etc.; competition; emulation; strife in arms; conflict; combat; encounter.

Contestable (a.) Capable of being contested; debatable.

Contestant (n.) One who contests; an opponent; a litigant; a disputant; one who claims that which has been awarded to another.

Contestation (n.) The act of contesting; emulation; rivalry; strife; dispute.

Contestation (n.) Proof by witness; attestation; testimony.

Contestingly (adv.) In a contending manner.

Contex (v. t.) To context.

Context (a.) Knit or woven together; close; firm.

Context (n.) The part or parts of something written or printed, as of Scripture, which precede or follow a text or quoted sentence, or are so intimately associated with it as to throw light upon its meaning.

Context (v. t.) To knit or bind together; to unite closely.

Contextural (a.) Pertaining to contexture or arrangement of parts; producing contexture; interwoven.

Contexture (n.) The arrangement and union of the constituent parts of a thing; a weaving together of parts; structural character of a thing; system; constitution; texture.

Contextured (a.) Formed into texture; woven together; arranged; composed.

Conticent (a.) Silent.

Contignation (n.) The act or process of framing together, or uniting, as beams in a fabric.

Contignation (n.) A framework or fabric, as of beams.

Contiguate (a.) Contiguous; touching.

Contiguity (n.) The state of being contiguous; intimate association; nearness; proximity.

Contiguous (a.) In actual contact; touching; also, adjacent; near; neighboring; adjoining.

Continence (n.) Alt. of Continency

Continency (n.) Self-restraint; self-command.

Continency (n.) The restraint which a person imposes upon his desires and passions; the act or power of refraining from indulgence of the sexual appetite, esp. from unlawful indulgence; sometimes, moderation in sexual indulgence.

Continency (n.) Uninterrupted course; continuity.

Continent (a.) Serving to restrain or limit; restraining; opposing.

Continent (a.) Exercising restraint as to the indulgence of desires or passions; temperate; moderate.

Continent (a.) Abstaining from sexual intercourse; exercising restraint upon the sexual appetite; esp., abstaining from illicit sexual intercourse; chaste.

Continent (a.) Not interrupted; connected; continuous; as, a continent fever.

Continent (a.) That which contains anything; a receptacle.

Continent (a.) One of the grand divisions of land on the globe; the main land; specifically (Phys. Geog.), a large body of land differing from an island, not merely in its size, but in its structure, which is that of a large basin bordered by mountain chains; as, the continent of North America.

Continental (a.) Of or pertaining to a continent.

Continental (a.) Of or pertaining to the main land of Europe, in distinction from the adjacent islands, especially England; as, a continental tour; a continental coalition.

Continental (a.) Of or pertaining to the confederated colonies collectively, in the time of the Revolutionary War; as, Continental money.

Continental (n.) A soldier in the Continental army, or a piece of the Continental currency. See Continental, a., 3.

Continently (adv.) In a continent manner; chastely; moderately; temperately.

Contingence (n.) See Contingency.

Contingencies (pl. ) of Contingency

Contingency (n.) Union or connection; the state of touching or contact.

Contingency (n.) The quality or state of being contingent or casual; the possibility of coming to pass.

Contingency (n.) An event which may or may not occur; that which is possible or probable; a fortuitous event; a chance.

Contingency (n.) An adjunct or accessory.

Contingency (n.) A certain possible event that may or may not happen, by which, when happening, some particular title may be affected.

Contingent (a.) Possible, or liable, but not certain, to occur; incidental; casual.

Contingent (a.) Dependent on that which is undetermined or unknown; as, the success of his undertaking is contingent upon events which he can not control.

Contingent (a.) Dependent for effect on something that may or may not occur; as, a contingent estate.

Contingent (n.) An event which may or may not happen; that which is unforeseen, undetermined, or dependent on something future; a contingency.

Contingent (n.) That which falls to one in a division or apportionment among a number; a suitable share; proportion; esp., a quota of troops.

Contingently (adv.) In a contingent manner; without design or foresight; accidentally.

Contingentness (n.) The state of being contingent; fortuitousness.

Continuable (a.) Capable of being continued

Continual (a.) Proceeding without interruption or cesstaion; continuous; unceasing; lasting; abiding.

Continual (a.) Occuring in steady and rapid succession; very frequent; often repeated.

Continually (adv.) Without cessation; unceasingly; continuously; as, the current flows continually.

Continually (adv.) In regular or repeated succession; very often.

Continuance (n.) A holding on, or remaining in a particular state; permanence, as of condition, habits, abode, etc.; perseverance; constancy; duration; stay.

Continuance (n.) Uninterrupted succession; continuation; constant renewal; perpetuation; propagation.

Continuance (n.) A holding together; continuity.

Continuance (n.) The adjournment of the proceedings in a cause from one day, or from one stated term of a court, to another.

Continuance (n.) The entry of such adjournment and the grounds thereof on the record.

Continuant (a.) Continuing; prolonged; sustained; as, a continuant sound.

Continuant (n.) A continuant sound; a letter whose sound may be prolonged.

Continuate (a.) Immediately united together; intimately connected.

Continuate (a.) Uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; continued.

Continuation (n.) That act or state of continuing; the state of being continued; uninterrupted extension or succession; prolongation; propagation.

Continuation (n.) That which extends, increases, supplements, or carries on; as, the continuation of a story.

Continuative (n.) A term or expression denoting continuance.

Continuative (n.) A word that continues the connection of sentences or subjects; a connective; a conjunction.

Continuator (n.) One who, or that which, continues; esp., one who continues a series or a work; a continuer.

Continued (imp. & p. p.) of Continue

Continuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Continue

Continue (v. i.) To remain in a given place or condition; to remain in connection with; to abide; to stay.

Continue (v. i.) To be permanent or durable; to endure; to last.

Continue (v. i.) To be steadfast or constant in any course; to persevere; to abide; to endure; to persist; to keep up or maintain a particular condition, course, or series of actions; as, the army continued to advance.

Continue (v. t.) To unite; to connect.

Continue (v. t.) To protract or extend in duration; to preserve or persist in; to cease not.

Continue (v. t.) To carry onward or extend; to prolong or produce; to add to or draw out in length.

Continue (v. t.) To retain; to suffer or cause to remain; as, the trustees were continued; also, to suffer to live.

Continued (p. p. & a.) Having extension of time, space, order of events, exertion of energy, etc.; extended; protracted; uninterrupted; also, resumed after interruption; extending through a succession of issues, session, etc.; as, a continued story.

Continuedly (adv.) Continuously.

Continuer (n.) One who continues; one who has the power of perseverance or persistence.

Continuities (pl. ) of Continuity

Continuity (n.) the state of being continuous; uninterupted connection or succession; close union of parts; cohesion; as, the continuity of fibers.

Continuo (n.) Basso continuo, or continued bass.

Continuous (a.) Without break, cessation, or interruption; without intervening space or time; uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; unceasing; constant; continued; protracted; extended; as, a continuous line of railroad; a continuous current of electricity.

Continuous (a.) Not deviating or varying from uninformity; not interrupted; not joined or articulated.

Continuously (adv.) In a continuous maner; without interruption.

Contline (n.) The space between the strands on the outside of a rope.

Contline (n.) The space between the bilges of two casks stowed side by side.

Contorniate (n.) Alt. of Contorniate

Contorniate (n.) A species of medal or medallion of bronze, having a deep furrow on the contour or edge; -- supposed to have been struck in the days of Constantine and his successors.

Contorsion (n.) See Contortion.

Contort (v. t.) To twist, or twist together; to turn awry; to bend; to distort; to wrest.

Contorted (a.) Twisted, or twisted together.

Contorted (a.) Twisted back upon itself, as some parts of plants.

Contorted (a.) Arranged so as to overlap each other; as, petals in contorted or convolute aestivation.

Contortion (n.) A twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortion of the muscles of the face.

Contertionist (n.) One who makes or practices contortions.

Contortive (a.) Expressing contortion.

Contortuplicate (a.) Plaited lengthwise and twisted in addition, as the bud of the morning-glory.

Contour (n.) The outline of a figure or body, or the line or lines representing such an outline; the line that bounds; periphery.

Contour (n.) The outline of a horizontal section of the ground, or of works of fortification.

Contourne' (a.) Turned in a direction which is not the usual one; -- said of an animal turned to the sinister which is usually turned to the dexter, or the like.

Contourniated (a.) Having furrowed edges, as if turned in a lathe.

Contra () A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary, in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition of many English words. Cf. Counter, adv. & pref.

Contraband (n.) Illegal or prohibited traffic.

Contraband (n.) Goods or merchandise the importation or exportation of which is forbidden.

Contraband (n.) A negro slave, during the Civil War, escaped to, or was brought within, the Union lines. Such slave was considered contraband of war.

Contraband (a.) Prohibited or excluded by law or treaty; forbidden; as, contraband goods, or trade.

Contraband (v. t.) To import illegally, as prohibited goods; to smuggle.

Contraband (v. t.) To declare prohibited; to forbid.

Contrabandism (n.) Traffic in contraband goods; smuggling.

Contrabandist (n.) One who traffics illegally; a smuggler.

Contrabass (n.) Double bass; -- applied to any instrument of the same deep range as the stringed double bass; as, the contrabass ophicleide; the contrabass tuba or bombardon.

Contrabasso (n.) The largest kind of bass viol. See Violone.

Contracted (imp. & p. p.) of Contract

Contracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contract

Contract (n.) To draw together or nearer; to reduce to a less compass; to shorten, narrow, or lessen; as, to contract one's sphere of action.

Contract (n.) To draw together so as to wrinkle; to knit.

Contract (n.) To bring on; to incur; to acquire; as, to contract a habit; to contract a debt; to contract a disease.

Contract (n.) To enter into, with mutual obligations; to make a bargain or covenant for.

Contract (n.) To betroth; to affiance.

Contract (n.) To shorten by omitting a letter or letters or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to one.

Contract (v. i.) To be drawn together so as to be diminished in size or extent; to shrink; to be reduced in compass or in duration; as, iron contracts in cooling; a rope contracts when wet.

Contract (v. i.) To make an agreement; to covenant; to agree; to bargain; as, to contract for carrying the mail.

Contract (a.) Contracted; as, a contract verb.

Contract (a.) Contracted; affianced; betrothed.

Contract (n.) The agreement of two or more persons, upon a sufficient consideration or cause, to do, or to abstain from doing, some act; an agreement in which a party undertakes to do, or not to do, a particular thing; a formal bargain; a compact; an interchange of legal rights.

Contract (n.) A formal writing which contains the agreement of parties, with the terms and conditions, and which serves as a proof of the obligation.

Contract (n.) The act of formally betrothing a man and woman.

Contracted (a.) Drawn together; shrunken; wrinkled; narrow; as, a contracted brow; a contracted noun.

Contracted (a.) Narrow; illiberal; selfish; as, a contracted mind; contracted views.

Contracted (a.) Bargained for; betrothed; as, a contracted peace.

Contractedness (n.) The state of being contracted; narrowness; meanness; selfishness.

Contractibility (n.) Capability of being contracted; quality of being contractible; as, the contractibility and dilatability of air.

Contractible (a.) Capable of contraction.

Contractibleness (n.) Contractibility.

Contractile (a.) tending to contract; having the power or property of contracting, or of shrinking into shorter or smaller dimensions; as, the contractile tissues.

Contractility (n.) The quality or property by which bodies shrink or contract.

Contractility (n.) The power possessed by the fibers of living muscle of contracting or shortening.

Contraction (n.) The act or process of contracting, shortening, or shrinking; the state of being contracted; as, contraction of the heart, of the pupil of the eye, or of a tendion; the contraction produced by cold.

Contraction (n.) The process of shortening an operation.

Contraction (n.) The act of incurring or becoming subject to, as liabilities, obligation, debts, etc.; the process of becoming subject to; as, the contraction of a disease.

Contraction (n.) Something contracted or abbreviated, as a word or phrase; -- as, plenipo for plenipotentiary; crim. con. for criminal conversation, etc.

Contraction (n.) The shortening of a word, or of two words, by the omission of a letter or letters, or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to one; as, ne'er for never; can't for can not; don't for do not; it's for it is.

Contraction (n.) A marriage contract.

Contractive (a.) Tending to contract; having the property or power or power of contracting.

Contractor (n.) One who contracts; one of the parties to a bargain; one who covenants to do anything for another; specifically, one who contracts to perform work on a rather large scale, at a certain price or rate, as in building houses or making a railroad.

Contracture (n.) A state of permanent rigidity or contraction of the muscles, generally of the flexor muscles.

Contradance (n.) A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or in opposite lines.

Contradicted (imp. & p. p.) of Contradict

Contradicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contradict

Contradict (v. t.) To assert the contrary of; to oppose in words; to take issue with; to gainsay; to deny the truth of, as of a statement or a speaker; to impugn.

Contradict (v. t.) To be contrary to; to oppose; to resist.

Contradict (v. i.) To oppose in words; to gainsay; to deny, or assert the contrary of, something.

Contradictable (a.) Capable of being contradicting.

Contradicter (n.) one who contradicts.

Contradiction (n.) An assertion of the contrary to what has been said or affirmed; denial of the truth of a statement or assertion; contrary declaration; gainsaying.

Contradiction (n.) Direct opposition or repugnancy; inconsistency; incongruity or contrariety; one who, or that which, is inconsistent.

Contradictional (a.) Contradictory; inconsistent; opposing.

Contradictions (a.) Filled with contradictions; inconsistent.

Contradictions (a.) Inclined to contradict or cavil

Contradictive (a.) Contradictory; inconsistent.

Contradictor (n.) A contradicter.

Contradictorily (adv.) In a contradictory manner.

Contradictoriness (n.) The quality of being contradictory; opposition; inconsistency.

Contradictory (a.) Affirming the contrary; implying a denial of what has been asserted; also, mutually contradicting; inconsistent.

Contradictory (a.) Opposing or opposed; repugnant.

Contradictories (pl. ) of Contradictory

Contradictory (n.) A proposition or thing which denies or opposes another; contrariety.

Contradictory (n.) propositions with the same terms, but opposed to each other both in quality and quantity.

Contradistinct (a.) Distinguished by opposite qualities.

Contradistinction (n.) Distinction by contrast.

Contradistinctive (a.) having the quality of contradistinction; distinguishing by contrast.

Contradistinguished (imp. & p. p.) of Contradistinguish

Contradistinguishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contradistinguish

Contradistinguish (v. t. ) To distinguish by a contrast of opposite qualities.

Contrafagetto (n.) The double bassoon, an octave deeper than the bassoon.

Contrafissure (n.) A fissure or fracture on the side opposite to that which received the blow, or at some distance from it.

Contrahent (a.) Entering into covenant; contracting; as, contrahent parties.

Contraindicant (n.) Something, as a symptom, indicating that the usual mode of treatment is not to be followed.

Contraindicated (imp. & p. p.) of Contraindicate

Contraindicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contraindicate

Contraindicate (v. t.) To indicate, as by a symptom, some method of treatment contrary to that which the general tenor of the case would seem to require.

Contraindication (n.) An indication or symptom which forbids the method of treatment usual in such cases.

Contralto (n.) The part sung by the highest male or lowest female voices; the alto or counter tenor.

Contralto (n.) the voice or singer performing this part; as, her voice is a contralto; she is a contralto.

Contralto (a.) Of or pertaining to a contralto, or to the part in music called contralto; as, a contralto voice.

Contramure (n.) An outer wall.

Contranatural (a.) Opposed to or against nature; unnatural.

Contraposition (n.) A placing over against; opposite position.

Contraposition (n.) A so-called immediate inference which consists in denying the original subject of the contradictory predicate; e.g.: Every S is P; therefore, no Not-P is S.

Contrapuntal (a.) Pertaining to, or according to the rules of, counterpoint.

Contrapuntist (n.) One skilled in counterpoint.

Contraremonstrant (n.) One who remonstrates in opposition or answer to a remonstrant.

Contrariant (a.) Contrary; opposed; antagonistic; inconsistent; contradictory.

Contrariantly (adv.) Contrarily.

Contraries (n.) Propositions which directly and destructively contradict each other, but of which the falsehood of one does not establish the truth of the other.

Contrarieties (pl. ) of Contrariety

Contrariety (n.) The state or quality of being contrary; opposition; repugnance; disagreement; antagonism.

Contrariety (n.) Something which is contrary to, or inconsistent with, something else; an inconsistency.

Contrarily (adv.) In a contrary manner; in opposition; on the other side; in opposite ways.

Contrariness (n.) state or quality of being contrary; opposition; inconsistency; contrariety; perverseness; obstinacy.

Contrarious (a.) Showing contrariety; repugnant; perverse.

Contrariously (adv.) Contrarily; oppositely.

Contrariwise (adv.) On the contrary; oppositely; on the other hand.

Contrariwise (adv.) In a contrary order; conversely.

Contrarotation (n.) Circular motion in a direction contrary to some other circular motion.

Contrary (a.) Opposite; in an opposite direction; in opposition; adverse; as, contrary winds.

Contrary (a.) Opposed; contradictory; repugnant; inconsistent.

Contrary (a.) Given to opposition; perverse; forward; wayward; as, a contrary disposition; a contrary child.

Contrary (a.) Affirming the opposite; so opposed as to destroy each other; as, contrary propositions.

Contraries (pl. ) of Contrary

Contrary (n.) A thing that is of contrary or opposite qualities.

Contrary (n.) An opponent; an enemy.

Contrary (n.) the opposite; a proposition, fact, or condition incompatible with another; as, slender proofs which rather show the contrary. See Converse, n., 1.

Contrary (n.) See Contraries.

Contrarry (a.) To contradict or oppose; to thwart.

Contrasted (imp. & p. p.) of Contrast

Contrasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contrast

Contrast (v. i.) To stand in opposition; to exhibit difference, unlikeness, or opposition of qualities.

Contrast (v. t.) To set in opposition, or over against, in order to show the differences between, or the comparative excellences and defects of; to compare by difference or contrariety of qualities; as, to contrast the present with the past.

Contrast (v. t.) To give greater effect to, as to a figure or other object, by putting it in some relation of opposition to another figure or object.

Contrast (n.) The act of contrasting, or the state of being contrasted; comparison by contrariety of qualities.

Contrast (n.) Opposition or dissimilitude of things or qualities; unlikeness, esp. as shown by juxtaposition or comparison.

Contrast (n.) The opposition of varied forms, colors, etc., which by such juxtaposition more vividly express each other's peculiarities.

Contrastimulant (a.) Counteracting the effects of stimulants; relating to a course of medical treatment based on a theory of contrastimulants.

Contrastimulant (n.) An agent which counteracts the effect of a stimulant.

Contrate (a.) Having cogs or teeth projecting parallel to the axis, instead of radiating from it.

Contratenor (n.) Counter tenor; contralto.

Contravallation (n.) A trench guarded with a parapet, constructed by besiegers, to secure themselves and check sallies of the besieged.

Contravened (imp. & p. p.) of Contravene

Contravening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contravene

Contravene (v. t.) To meet in the way of opposition; to come into conflict with; to oppose; to contradict; to obstruct the operation of; to defeat.

Contravene (v. t.) To violate; to nullify; to be inconsistent with; as, to contravene a law.

Contravener (n.) One who contravenes.

Contravention (n.) The act of contravening; opposition; obstruction; transgression; violation.

Contraversion (n.) A turning to the opposite side; antistrophe.

Contrayerva (n.) A species of Dorstenia (D. Contrayerva), a South American plant, the aromatic root of which is sometimes used in medicine as a gentle stimulant and tonic.

Contrecoup (n.) A concussion or shock produced by a blow or other injury, in a part or region opposite to that at which the blow is received, often causing rupture or disorganisation of the parts affected.

Contretemps (n.) An unexpected and untoward accident; something inopportune or embarrassing; a hitch.

Contributable (a.) Capable of being contributed.

Contributary (a.) Contributory.

Contributary (a.) Tributary; contributing.

Contributed (imp. & p. p.) of Contribute

Contributing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contribute

Contribute (v. t.) To give or grant i common with others; to give to a common stock or for a common purpose; to furnish or suply in part; to give (money or other aid) for a specified object; as, to contribute food or fuel for the poor.

Contribute (v. i.) To give a part to a common stock; to lend assistance or aid, or give something, to a common purpose; to have a share in any act or effect.

Contribute (v. i.) To give or use one's power or influence for any object; to assist.

Contribution (n.) The act of contributing.

Contribution (n.) That which is contributed; -- either the portion which an individual furnishes to the common stock, or the whole which is formed by the gifts of individuals.

Contribution (n.) An irregular and arbitrary imposition or tax leved on the people of a town or country.

Contribution (n.) Payment, by each of several jointly liable, of a share in a loss suffered or an amount paid by one of their number for the common benefit.

Contributional (a.) Pertaining to, or furnishing, a contribution.

Contributive (a.) Contributing, or tending to contribute.

Contributer (n.) One who, or that which, contributes; specifically, one who writes articles for a newspaper or magazine.

Contributory (a.) Contributing to the same stock or purpose; promoting the same end; bringing assistance to some joint design, or increase to some common stock; contributive.

Contributories (pl. ) of Contributory

Contributory (n.) One who contributes, or is liable to be called upon to contribute, as toward the discharge of a common indebtedness.

Contrist (v. t.) To make sad.

Contristate (v. t. & i.) To make sorrowful.

Contrite (a.) Thoroughly bruised or broken.

Contrite (a.) Broken down with grief and penitence; deeply sorrowful for sin because it is displeasing to God; humbly and thoroughly penitent.

Contrite (n.) A contrite person.

Contrite (v.) In a contrite manner.

Contriteness (n.) Deep sorrow and penitence for sin; contrition.

Contrition (n.) The act of grinding or ribbing to powder; attrition; friction; rubbing.

Contrition (n.) The state of being contrite; deep sorrow and repentance for sin, because sin is displeasing to God; humble penitence; through repentance.

Contriturate (v. t.) To triturate; to pulverize.

Contrivble (a.) Capable of being contrived, planned, invented, or devised.

Contrivance (n.) The act or faculty of contriving, inventing, devising, or planning.

Contrivance (n.) The thing contrived, invented, or planned; disposition of parts or causes by design; a scheme; plan; atrifice; arrangement.

Contrived (imp. & p. p.) of Contrive

Contriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contrive

Contrive (v. t.) To form by an exercise of ingenuity; to devise; to invent; to design; to plan.

Contrive (v. i.) To make devices; to form designs; to plan; to scheme; to plot.

Contrivement (n.) Contrivance; invention; arrangement; design; plan.

Contriver (n.) One who contrives, devises, plans, or schemas.

Control (n.) A duplicate book, register, or account, kept to correct or check another account or register; a counter register.

Control (n.) That which serves to check, restrain, or hinder; restraint.

Control (n.) Power or authority to check or restrain; restraining or regulating influence; superintendence; government; as, children should be under parental control.

Controlled (imp. & p. p.) of Control

Controlling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Control

Control (v. t.) To check by a counter register or duplicate account; to prove by counter statements; to confute.

Control (v. t.) To exercise restraining or governing influence over; to check; to counteract; to restrain; to regulate; to govern; to overpower.

Controllability (n.) Capability of being controlled; controllableness.

Controllable (a.) Capable of being controlled, checked, or restrained; amenable to command.

Controllableness (n.) Capability of being controlled.

Controller (n.) One who, or that which, controls or restraines; one who has power or authority to regulate or control; one who governs.

Controller (n.) An officer appointed to keep a counter register of accounts, or to examine, rectify, or verify accounts.

Controller (n.) An iron block, usually bolted to a ship's deck, for controlling the running out of a chain cable. The links of the cable tend to drop into hollows in the block, and thus hold fast until disengaged.

Controllership (n.) The office of a controller.

Controlment (n.) The power or act of controlling; the state of being restrained; control; restraint; regulation; superintendence.

Controlment (n.) Opposition; resistance; hostility.

Controversal (a.) Turning or looking opposite ways.

Controversal (a.) Controversial.

Controversary (a.) Controversial.

Controverse (n.) Controversy.

Controverse (v. t.) To dispute; to controvert.

Controverser (n.) A disputant.

Controversial (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, controversy; disputatious; polemical; as, controversial divinity.

Controversialist (n.) One who carries on a controversy; a disputant.

Controversially (adv.) In a controversial manner.

Controversion (n.) Act of controverting; controversy.

Controversor (n.) A controverser.

Controversies (pl. ) of Controversy

Controversy (n.) Contention; dispute; debate; discussion; agitation of contrary opinions.

Controversy (n.) Quarrel; strife; cause of variance; difference.

Controversy (n.) A suit in law or equity; a question of right.

Controverted (imp. & p. p.) of Controvert

Controverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Controvert

Controvert (v. t.) To make matter of controversy; to dispute or oppose by reasoning; to contend against in words or writings; to contest; to debate.

Controverter (n.) One who controverts; a controversial writer; a controversialist.

Controvertible (a.) Capable of being controverted; disputable; admitting of question.

Controvertist (n.) One skilled in or given to controversy; a controversialist.

Contubernal (a.) Alt. of Contubernial

Contubernial (a.) Living or messing together; familiar; in companionship.

Contumacious (a.) Exhibiting contumacy; contemning authority; obstinate; perverse; stubborn; disobedient.

Contumacious (a.) Willfully disobedient to the summous or prders of a court.

Contumacies (pl. ) of Contumacy

Contumacy (n.) Stubborn perverseness; pertinacious resistance to authority.

Contumacy (n.) A willful contempt of, and disobedience to, any lawful summons, or to the rules and orders of court, as a refusal to appear in court when legally summoned.

Contumelious (a.) Exhibiting contumely; rudely contemptuous; insolent; disdainful.

Contumelious (a.) Shameful; disgraceful.

Contumely (n.) Rudeness compounded of haughtiness and contempt; scornful insolence; despiteful treatment; disdain; contemptuousness in act or speech; disgrace.

Contused (imp. & p. p.) of Contuse

Contusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contuse

Contuse (v. t.) To beat, pound, or together.

Contuse (v. t.) To bruise; to injure or disorganize a part without breaking the skin.

Contusion (n.) The act or process of beating, bruising, or pounding; the state of being beaten or bruised.

Contusion (n.) A bruise; an injury attended with more or less disorganization of the subcutaneous tissue and effusion of blood beneath the skin, but without apparent wound.

Conundrum (n.) A kind of riddle based upon some fanciful or fantastic resemblance between things quite unlike; a puzzling question, of which the answer is or involves a pun.

Conundrum (n.) A question to which only a conjectural answer can be made.

Conure (n.) An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus. Many species are known. See Parrakeet.

Conus (n.) A cone.

Conus (n.) A Linnean genus of mollusks having a conical shell. See Cone, n., 4.

Conusable (a.) Cognizable; liable to be tried or judged.

Conusant (a.) See Cognizant.

Conusor (n.) See Cognizor.

Convalesced (imp. & p. p.) of Convalesce

Convalescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convalesce

Convalesce (v. i.) To recover health and strength gradually, after sickness or weakness; as, a patient begins to convalesce.

Convalesced (a.) Convalescent.

Convalescence (n.) Alt. of Convalescency

Convalescency (n.) The recovery of heath and strength after disease; the state of a body renewing its vigor after sickness or weakness; the time between the subsidence of a disease and complete restoration to health.

Convalescent (a.) Recovering from sickness or debility; partially restored to health or strength.

Convalescent (a.) Of or pertaining to convalescence.

Convalescent (n.) One recovering from sickness.

Convalescently (adv.) In the manner of a convalescent; with increasing strength or vigor.

Convallamarin (n.) A white, crystalline, poisonous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from the lily of the valley (Convallaria Majalis). Its taste is first bitter, then sweet.

Convallaria (n.) The lily of the valley.

Convallarin (n.) A white, crystalline glucoside, of an irritating taste, extracted from the convallaria or lily of the valley.

Convection (n.) The act or process of conveying or transmitting.

Convection (n.) A process of transfer or transmission, as of heat or electricity, by means of currents in liquids or gases, resulting from changes of temperature and other causes.

Convective (a.) Caused or accomplished by convection; as, a convective discharge of electricity.

Convectively (adv.) In a convective manner.

Convellent (a.) Tending to tear or pull up.

Convenable (a.) Capable of being convened or assembled.

Convenable (a.) Consistent; accordant; suitable; proper; as, convenable remedies.

Convenance (n.) That which is suitable, agreeable, or convenient.

Convened (imp. & p. p.) of Convene

Convenong (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convene

Convene (v. i.) To come together; to meet; to unite.

Convene (v. i.) To come together, as in one body or for a public purpose; to meet; to assemble.

Convene (v. t.) To cause to assemble; to call together; to convoke.

Convene (v. t.) To summon judicially to meet or appear.

Convener (n.) One who convenes or meets with others.

Convener (n.) One who calls an assembly together or convenes a meeting; hence, the chairman of a committee or other organized body.

Convenience (n.) Alt. of Conveniency

Conveniency (n.) The state or quality of being convenient; fitness or suitableness, as of place, time, etc.; propriety.

Conveniency (n.) Freedom from discomfort, difficulty, or trouble; commodiousness; ease; accommodation.

Conveniency (n.) That which is convenient; that which promotes comfort or advantage; that which is suited to one's wants; an accommodation.

Conveniency (n.) A convenient or fit time; opportunity; as, to do something at one's convenience.

Convenient (v. i.) Fit or adapted; suitable; proper; becoming; appropriate.

Convenient (v. i.) Affording accommodation or advantage; well adapted to use; handly; as, a convenient house; convenient implements or tools.

Convenient (v. i.) Seasonable; timely; opportune; as, a convenient occasion; a convenient season.

Convenient (v. i.) Near at hand; easy of access.

Conveniently (adv.) In a convenient manner, form, or situation; without difficulty.

Convent (v. i.) A coming together; a meeting.

Convent (v. i.) An association or community of recluses devoted to a religious life; a body of monks or nuns.

Convent (v. i.) A house occupied by a community of religious recluses; a monastery or nunnery.

Convent (v. i.) To meet together; to concur.

Convent (v. i.) To be convenient; to serve.

Convent (v. t.) To call before a judge or judicature; to summon; to convene.

Conventical (a.) Of or from, or pertaining to, a convent.

Conventicle (n.) A small assembly or gathering; esp., a secret assembly.

Conventicle (n.) An assembly for religious worship; esp., such an assembly held privately, as in times of persecution, by Nonconformists or Dissenters in England, or by Covenanters in Scotland; -- often used opprobriously, as if those assembled were heretics or schismatics.

Conventicler (n.) One who supports or frequents conventicles.

Conventicling (a.) Belonging or going to, or resembling, a conventicle.

Convention (v. i.) The act of coming together; the state of being together; union; coalition.

Convention (v. i.) General agreement or concurrence; arbitrary custom; usage; conventionality.

Convention (v. i.) A meeting or an assembly of persons, esp. of delegates or representatives, to accomplish some specific object, -- civil, social, political, or ecclesiastical.

Convention (v. i.) An extraordinary assembly of the parkiament or estates of the realm, held without the king's writ, -- as the assembly which restored Charles II. to the throne, and that which declared the throne to be abdicated by James II.

Convention (v. i.) An agreement or contract less formal than, or preliminary to, a treaty; an informal compact, as between commanders of armies in respect to suspension of hostilities, or between states; also, a formal agreement between governments or sovereign powers; as, a postal convention between two governments.

Conventional (a.) Formed by agreement or compact; stipulated.

Conventional (a.) Growing out of, or depending on, custom or tacit agreement; sanctioned by general concurrence or usage; formal.

Conventional (a.) Based upon tradition, whether religious and historical or of artistic rules.

Conventional (a.) Abstracted; removed from close representation of nature by the deliberate selection of what is to be represented and what is to be rejected; as, a conventional flower; a conventional shell. Cf. Conventionalize, v. t.

Conventionalism (n.) That which is received or established by convention or arbitrary agreement; that which is in accordance with the fashion, tradition, or usage.

Conventionalism (n.) The principles or practice of conventionalizing. See Conventionalize, v. t.

Conventionalist (n.) One who adheres to a convention or treaty.

Conventionalist (n.) One who is governed by conventionalism.

Conventionalities (pl. ) of Conventionality

Conventionality (n.) The state of being conventional; adherence to social formalities or usages; that which is established by conventional use; one of the customary usages of social life.

Conventionalization (n.) The act of making conventional.

Conventionalization (n.) The state of being conventional.

Conventionalized (imp. & p. p.) of Conventionalizw

Conventionalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conventionalizw

Conventionalizw (v. t.) To make conventional; to bring under the influence of, or cause to conform to, conventional rules; to establish by usage.

Conventionalizw (v. t.) To represent by selecting the important features and those which are expressible in the medium employed, and omitting the others.

Conventionalizw (v. t.) To represent according to an established principle, whether religious or traditional, or based upon certain artistic rules of supposed importance.

Conventionalize (v. i.) To make designs in art, according to conventional principles. Cf. Conventionalize, v. t., 2.

Conventionalily (adv.) In a conventional manner.

Conventionary (a.) Acting under contract; settled by express agreement; as, conventionary tenants.

Conventioner (n.) One who belongs to a convention or assembly.

Conventionist (n.) One who enters into a convention, covenant, or contract.

Conventual (a.) Of or pertaining to a convent; monastic.

Conventual (n.) One who lives in a convent; a monk or nun; a recluse.

Converged (imp. & p. p.) of Converge

Converging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Converge

Converge (v. i.) To tend to one point; to incline and approach nearer together; as, lines converge.

Converge (v. t.) To cause to tend to one point; to cause to incline and approach nearer together.

Convergence (n.) Alt. of Convergency

Convergency (n.) The condition or quality of converging; tendency to one point.

Convergent (a.) tending to one point of focus; tending to approach each other; converging.

Converging (a.) Tending to one point; approaching each other; convergent; as, converging lines.

Conversable (a.) Qualified for conversation; disposed to converse; sociable; free in discourse.

Conversableness (n.) The quality of being conversable; disposition to converse; sociability.

Conversably (adv.) In a conversable manner.

Conversance (n.) The state or quality of being conversant; habit of familiarity; familiar acquaintance; intimacy.

Conversancy (n.) Conversance

Conversant (a.) Having frequent or customary intercourse; familiary associated; intimately acquainted.

Conversant (a.) Familiar or acquainted by use or study; well-informed; versed; -- generally used with with, sometimes with in.

Conversant (a.) Concerned; occupied.

Conversant (n.) One who converses with another; a convenser.

Conversantly (adv.) In a familiar manner.

Conversation (n.) General course of conduct; behavior.

Conversation (n.) Familiar intercourse; intimate fellowship or association; close acquaintance.

Conversation (n.) Commerce; intercourse; traffic.

Conversation (n.) Colloquial discourse; oral interchange of sentiments and observations; informal dialogue.

Conversation (n.) Sexual intercourse; as, criminal conversation.

Conversational (a.) Pertaining to conversation; in the manner of one conversing; as, a conversational style.

Conversationalist (n.) A conversationist.

Conversationed (a.) Acquainted with manners and deportment; behaved.

Conversationism (n.) A word or phrase used in conversation; a colloquialism.

Conversationist (n.) One who converses much, or who excels in conversation.

Conversative (a.) Relating to intercourse with men; social; -- opposed to contemplative.

Conversazioni (pl. ) of Conversazi-one

Conversazi-one (n.) A meeting or assembly for conversation, particularly on literary or scientific subjects.

Conversed (imp. & p. p.) of Converse

Conversing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Converse

Converse (v. i.) To keep company; to hold intimate intercourse; to commune; -- followed by with.

Converse (v. i.) To engage in familiar colloquy; to interchange thoughts and opinions in a free, informal manner; to chat; -- followed by with before a person; by on, about, concerning, etc., before a thing.

Converse (v. i.) To have knowledge of, from long intercourse or study; -- said of things.

Converse (n.) Frequent intercourse; familiar communion; intimate association.

Converse (n.) Familiar discourse; free interchange of thoughts or views; conversation; chat.

Converse (a.) Turned about; reversed in order or relation; reciprocal; as, a converse proposition.

Converse (n.) A proposition which arises from interchanging the terms of another, as by putting the predicate for the subject, and the subject for the predicate; as, no virtue is vice, no vice is virtue.

Converse (n.) A proposition in which, after a conclusion from something supposed has been drawn, the order is inverted, making the conclusion the supposition or premises, what was first supposed becoming now the conclusion or inference. Thus, if two sides of a sides of a triangle are equal, the angles opposite the sides are equal; and the converse is true, i.e., if these angles are equal, the two sides are equal.

Conversely (adv.) In a converse manner; with change of order or relation; reciprocally.

Converser (n.) One who engages in conversation.

Conversible (a.) Capable of being converted or reversed.

Conversion (n.) The act of turning or changing from one state or condition to another, or the state of being changed; transmutation; change.

Conversion (n.) The act of changing one's views or course, as in passing from one side, party, or from of religion to another; also, the state of being so changed.

Conversion (n.) An appropriation of, and dealing with the property of another as if it were one's own, without right; as, the conversion of a horse.

Conversion (n.) The act of interchanging the terms of a proposition, as by putting the subject in the place of the predicate, or the contrary.

Conversion (n.) A change or reduction of the form or value of a proposition; as, the conversion of equations; the conversion of proportions.

Conversion (n.) A change of front, as a body of troops attacked in the flank.

Conversion (n.) A change of character or use, as of smoothbore guns into rifles.

Conversion (n.) A spiritual and moral change attending a change of belief with conviction; a change of heart; a change from the service of the world to the service of God; a change of the ruling disposition of the soul, involving a transformation of the outward life.

Conversive (a.) Capable of being converted or changed.

Conversive (a.) Ready to converse; social.

Converted (imp. & p. p.) of Convert

Converting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convert

Convert (v. t.) To cause to turn; to turn.

Convert (v. t.) To change or turn from one state or condition to another; to alter in form, substance, or quality; to transform; to transmute; as, to convert water into ice.

Convert (v. t.) To change or turn from one belief or course to another, as from one religion to another or from one party or sect to another.

Convert (v. t.) To produce the spiritual change called conversion in (any one); to turn from a bad life to a good one; to change the heart and moral character of (any one) from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness.

Convert (v. t.) To apply to any use by a diversion from the proper or intended use; to appropriate dishonestly or illegally.

Convert (v. t.) To exchange for some specified equivalent; as, to convert goods into money.

Convert (v. t.) To change (one proposition) into another, so that what was the subject of the first becomes the predicate of the second.

Convert (v. t.) To turn into another language; to translate.

Convert (v. i.) To be turned or changed in character or direction; to undergo a change, physically or morally.

Convert (n.) A person who is converted from one opinion or practice to another; a person who is won over to, or heartily embraces, a creed, religious system, or party, in which he has not previously believed; especially, one who turns from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness, or from unbelief to Christianity.

Convert (n.) A lay friar or brother, permitted to enter a monastery for the service of the house, but without orders, and not allowed to sing in the choir.

Convertend (n.) Any proposition which is subject to the process of conversion; -- so called in its relation to itself as converted, after which process it is termed the converse. See Converse, n. (Logic).

Converter (n.) One who converts; one who makes converts.

Converter (n.) A retort, used in the Bessemer process, in which molten cast iron is decarburized and converted into steel by a blast of air forced through the liquid metal.

Convertibility (n.) The condition or quality of being convertible; capability of being exchanged; convertibleness.

Convertible (a.) Capable of being converted; susceptible of change; transmutable; transformable.

Convertible (a.) Capable of being exchanged or interchanged; reciprocal; interchangeable.

Convertibleness (n.) The state of being convertible; convertibility.

Convertibly (adv.) In a convertible manner.

Convertite (n.) A convert.

Convex (a.) Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line when viewed from without, in opposition to concave.

Convex (n.) A convex body or surface.

Convexed (a.) Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form.

Convexedly (dv.) In a convex form; convexly.

Convexedness (n.) Convexity.

Convexities (pl. ) of Convexity

Convexity (n.) The state of being convex; the exterior surface of a convex body; roundness.

Convexly (adv.) In a convex form; as, a body convexly shaped.

Convexness (n.) The state of being convex; convexity.

Convexo-concave (a.) Convex on one side, and concave on the other. The curves of the convex and concave sides may be alike or may be different. See Meniscus.

Convexo-convex (a.) Convex on both sides; double convex. See under Convex, a.

Convexo-plane (a.) Convex on one side, and flat on the other; plano-convex.

Conveyed (imp. & p. p.) of Convey

Conveying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convey

Convey (v. t.) To carry from one place to another; to bear or transport.

Convey (v. t.) To cause to pass from one place or person to another; to serve as a medium in carrying (anything) from one place or person to another; to transmit; as, air conveys sound; words convey ideas.

Convey (v. t.) To transfer or deliver to another; to make over, as property; more strictly (Law), to transfer (real estate) or pass (a title to real estate) by a sealed writing.

Convey (v. t.) To impart or communicate; as, to convey an impression; to convey information.

Convey (v. t.) To manage with privacy; to carry out.

Convey (v. t.) To carry or take away secretly; to steal; to thieve.

Convey (v. t.) To accompany; to convoy.

Convey (v. i.) To play the thief; to steal.

Conveyable (a.) Capable of being conveyed or transferred.

Conveyance (n.) The act of conveying, carrying, or transporting; carriage.

Conveyance (n.) The instrument or means of carrying or transporting anything from place to place; the vehicle in which, or means by which, anything is carried from one place to another; as, stagecoaches, omnibuses, etc., are conveyances; a canal or aqueduct is a conveyance for water.

Conveyance (n.) The act or process of transferring, transmitting, handing down, or communicating; transmission.

Conveyance (n.) The act by which the title to property, esp. real estate, is transferred; transfer of ownership; an instrument in writing (as a deed or mortgage), by which the title to property is conveyed from one person to another.

Conveyance (n.) Dishonest management, or artifice.

Conveyancer (n.) One whose business is to draw up conveyances of property, as deeds, mortgages, leases, etc.

Conveyancing (n.) The business of a conveyancer; the act or business of drawing deeds, leases, or other writings, for transferring the title to property from one person to another.

Conveyer (n.) One who, or that which, conveys or carries, transmits or transfers.

Conveyer (n.) One given to artifices or secret practices; a juggler; a cheat; a thief.

Conveyor (n.) A contrivance for carrying objects from place to place; esp., one for conveying grain, coal, etc., -- as a spiral or screw turning in a pipe or trough, an endless belt with buckets, or a truck running along a rope.

Conviciate (v. i.) To utter reproaches; to raise a clamor; to rail.

Convicinities (pl. ) of Convicinity

Convicinity (n.) Immediate vicinity; neighborhood.

Convicious (a.) Expressing reproach; abusive; railing; taunting.

Convict (p.a.) Proved or found guilty; convicted.

Convict (n.) A person proved guilty of a crime alleged against him; one legally convicted or sentenced to punishment for some crime.

Convict (n.) A criminal sentenced to penal servitude.

Convicted (imp. & p. p.) of Convict

Convicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convict

Convict (v. t.) To prove or find guilty of an offense or crime charged; to pronounce guilty, as by legal decision, or by one's conscience.

Convict (v. t.) To prove or show to be false; to confute; to refute.

Convict (v. t.) To demonstrate by proof or evidence; to prove.

Convict (v. t.) To defeat; to doom to destruction.

Convict1ible (a.) Capable of being convicted.

Conviction (n.) The act of convicting; the act of proving, finding, or adjudging, guilty of an offense.

Conviction (n.) A judgment of condemnation entered by a court having jurisdiction; the act or process of finding guilty, or the state of being found guilty of any crime by a legal tribunal.

Conviction (n.) The act of convincing of error, or of compelling the admission of a truth; confutation.

Conviction (n.) The state of being convinced or convicted; strong persuasion or belief; especially, the state of being convicted of sin, or by one's conscience.

Convictism (n.) The policy or practice of transporting convicts to penal settlements.

Convictive (a.) Convincing.

Convinced (imp. & p. p.) of Convince

Convincing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convince

Convince (v. t.) To overpower; to overcome; to subdue or master.

Convince (v. t.) To overcome by argument; to force to yield assent to truth; to satisfy by proof.

Convince (v. t.) To confute; to prove the fallacy of.

Convince (v. t.) To prove guilty; to convict.

Convincement (n.) Act of convincing, or state of being convinced; conviction.

Convincer (n.) One who, or that which, convinces; one who wins over by proof.

Convincible (a.) Capable of being convinced or won over.

Convincible (a.) Capable of being confuted and disproved by argument; refutable.

Convincingly (adv.) in a convincing manner; in a manner to compel assent.

Convincingness (n.) The power of convincing, or the quality of being convincing.

Convival (a.) pertaining to a feast or to festivity; convivial.

Convive (v. i.) To feast together; to be convivial.

Convive (n.) A quest at a banquet.

Convivial (a.) Of or relating to a feast or entertainment, or to eating and drinking, with accompanying festivity; festive; social; gay; jovial.

Convivialist (n.) A person of convivial habits.

Convivialities (pl. ) of Conviviality

Conviviality (n.) The good humor or mirth indulged in upon festive occasions; a convivial spirit or humor; festivity.

Convivially (adv.) In a convivial manner.

Convocated (imp. & p. p.) of Convocate

Convocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convocate

Convocate (v. t.) To convoke; to call together.

Convocation (n.) The act of calling or assembling by summons.

Convocation (n.) An assembly or meeting.

Convocation (n.) An assembly of the clergy, by their representatives, to consult on ecclesiastical affairs.

Convocation (n.) An academical assembly, in which the business of the university is transacted.

Convocational (a.) Of or pertaining to a convocation.

Convocationist (n.) An advocate or defender of convocation.

Convoked (imp. & p. p.) of Convoke

Convoking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convoke

Convoke (v. t.) To call together; to summon to meet; to assemble by summons.

Convolute (a.) Rolled or wound together, one part upon another; -- said of the leaves of plants in aestivation.

Convoluted (a.) Having convolutions.

Convoluted (a.) Folded in tortuous windings.

Convolution (n.) The act of rolling anything upon itself, or one thing upon another; a winding motion.

Convolution (n.) The state of being rolled upon itself, or rolled or doubled together; a tortuous or sinuous winding or fold, as of something rolled or folded upon itself.

Convolution (n.) An irregular, tortuous folding of an organ or part; as, the convolutions of the intestines; the cerebral convolutions. See Brain.

Convolved (imp. & p. p.) of Convolve

Convolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convolve

Convolve (v. t.) To roll or wind together; to roll or twist one part on another.

Convolvulaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the bindweed and the morning-glory are common examples.

Convolvulin (n.) A glucoside occurring in jalap (the root of a convolvulaceous plant), and extracted as a colorless, tasteless, gummy mass of powerful purgative properties.

Convolvuli (pl. ) of Convolvulus

Convoluluses (pl. ) of Convolvulus

Convolvulus (n.) A large genus of plants having monopetalous flowers, including the common bindweed (C. arwensis), and formerly the morning-glory, but this is now transferred to the genus Ipomaea.

Convoyed (imp. & p. p.) of Convoy

Convoying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convoy

Convoy (v. t.) To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attend for protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman.

Convoy (n.) The act of attending for defense; the state of being so attended; protection; escort.

Convoy (n.) A vessel or fleet, or a train or trains of wagons, employed in the transportation of munitions of war, money, subsistence, clothing, etc., and having an armed escort.

Convoy (n.) A protection force accompanying ships, etc., on their way from place to place, by sea or land; an escort, for protection or guidance.

Convoy (n.) Conveyance; means of transportation.

Convoy (n.) A drag or brake applied to the wheels of a carriage, to check their velocity in going down a hill.

Convulsed (imp. & p. p.) of Convulse

Convulsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convulse

Convulse (v. t.) To contract violently and irregulary, as the muscular parts of an animal body; to shake with irregular spasms, as in excessive laughter, or in agony from grief or pain.

Convulse (v. t.) To agitate greatly; to shake violently.

Convulsion (n.) An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of the muscular parts of an animal body.

Convulsion (n.) Any violent and irregular motion or agitation; a violent shaking; a tumult; a commotion.

Convulsional (a.) Pertaining to, or having, convulsions; convulsionary.

Convulsionary (a.) Pertaining to convulsion; convulsive.

Convulsionary (n.) A convulsionist.

Convulsionist (n.) One who has convulsions; esp., one of a body of fanatics in France, early in the eighteenth century, who went into convulsions under the influence of religious emotion; as, the Convulsionists of St. Medard.

Convulsive (a.) Producing, or attended with, convulsions or spasms; characterized by convulsions; convulsionary.

Convulsively (adv.) in a convulsive manner.

Cony (n.) A rabbit, esp., the European rabbit (Lepus cuniculus)

Cony (n.) The chief hare.

Cony (n.) A simpleton.

Cony (n.) An important edible West Indian fish (Epinephelus apua); the hind of Bermuda.

Cony (n.) A local name of the burbot.

Cony-catch (v. t.) To deceive; to cheat; to trick.

Cony-catcher (n.) A cheat; a sharper; a deceiver.

Conylene (n.) An oily substance, C8H14, obtained from several derivatives of conine.

Conyrine (n.) A blue, fluorescent, oily base (regarded as a derivative of pyridine), obtained from conine.

Cooed (imp. & p. p.) of Coo

Cooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coo

Coo (v. i.) To make a low repeated cry or sound, like the characteristic note of pigeons or doves.

Coo (v. i.) To show affection; to act in a loving way. See under Bill, v. i.

Cooey (n.) Alt. of Cooee

Cooee (n.) A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes as a call or signal.

Cook (v. i.) To make the noise of the cuckoo.

Cook (v. t.) To throw.

Cook (n.) One whose occupation is to prepare food for the table; one who dresses or cooks meat or vegetables for eating.

Cook (n.) A fish, the European striped wrasse.

Cooked (imp. & p. p.) of Cook

Cooking (p. pr & vb. n.) of Cook

Cook (v. t.) To prepare, as food, by boiling, roasting, baking, broiling, etc.; to make suitable for eating, by the agency of fire or heat.

Cook (v. t.) To concoct or prepare; hence, to tamper with or alter; to garble; -- often with up; as, to cook up a story; to cook an account.

Cook (v. i.) To prepare food for the table.

Cookbook (n.) A book of directions and receipts for cooking; a cookery book.

Cookee (n.) A female cook.

Cookery (n.) The art or process of preparing food for the table, by dressing, compounding, and the application of heat.

Cookery (n.) A delicacy; a dainty.

Cookey (n.) Alt. of Cookie

Cookie (n.) See Cooky.

Cookmaid (n.) A female servant or maid who dresses provisions and assists the cook.

Cookroom (n.) A room for cookery; a kitchen; the galley or caboose of a ship.

Cookshop (n.) An eating house.

Cookies (pl. ) of Cooky

Cooky (n.) A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds.

Cool (superl.) Moderately cold; between warm and cold; lacking in warmth; producing or promoting coolness.

Cool (superl.) Not ardent, warm, fond, or passionate; not hasty; deliberate; exercising self-control; self-possessed; dispassionate; indifferent; as, a cool lover; a cool debater.

Cool (superl.) Not retaining heat; light; as, a cool dress.

Cool (superl.) Manifesting coldness or dislike; chilling; apathetic; as, a cool manner.

Cool (superl.) Quietly impudent; negligent of propriety in matters of minor importance, either ignorantly or willfully; presuming and selfish; audacious; as, cool behavior.

Cool (superl.) Applied facetiously, in a vague sense, to a sum of money, commonly as if to give emphasis to the largeness of the amount.

Cool (n.) A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperature of the air between hot and cold; as, the cool of the day; the cool of the morning or evening.

Cooled (imp. & p. p.) of Cool

Cooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cool

Cool (v. t.) To make cool or cold; to reduce the temperature of; as, ice cools water.

Cool (v. t.) To moderate the heat or excitement of; to allay, as passion of any kind; to calm; to moderate.

Cool (v. i.) To become less hot; to lose heat.

Cool (v. i.) To lose the heat of excitement or passion; to become more moderate.

Cooler (n.) That which cools, or abates heat or excitement.

Cooler (n.) Anything in or by which liquids or other things are cooled, as an ice chest, a vessel for ice water, etc.

Cool-headed (a.) Having a temper not easily excited; free from passion.

Coolie (n.) Same as Cooly.

Cooling (p.a.) Adapted to cool and refresh; allaying heat.

Coolish (a.) Somewhat cool.

Coolly (a.) Coolish; cool.

Coolly (adv.) In a cool manner; without heat or excessive cold; without passion or ardor; calmly; deliberately; with indifference; impudently.

Coolness (n.) The state of being cool; a moderate degree of cold; a moderate degree, or a want, of passion; want of ardor, zeal, or affection; calmness.

Coolness (n.) Calm impudence; self-possession.

Coolung (n.) The great gray crane of India (Grus cinerea).

Coolies (pl. ) of Coolie

Cooly (n.) Alt. of Coolie

Coolie (n.) An East Indian porter or carrier; a laborer transported from the East Indies, China, or Japan, for service in some other country.

Coom (n.) Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comes from axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven.

Coomb (n.) A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter.

Coomb (n.) Alt. of Coombe

Coombe (n.) A hollow in a hillside. [Prov. Eng.] See Comb, Combe.

Coon (n.) A raccoon. See Raccoon.

Coontie (n.) A cycadaceous plant of Florida and the West Indies, the Zamia integrifolia, from the stems of which a kind of sago is prepared.

Coop (n.) A barrel or cask for liquor.

Coop (n.) An inclosure for keeping small animals; a pen; especially, a grated box for confining poultry.

Coop (n.) A cart made close with boards; a tumbrel.

Cooped (imp. & p. p.) of Coop

Cooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coop

Coop (v. t.) To confine in a coop; hence, to shut up or confine in a narrow compass; to cramp; -- usually followed by up, sometimes by in.

Coop (v. t.) To work upon in the manner of a cooper.

Coopee (n.) See Coupe.

Cooper (n.) One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc.

Coopered (imp. & p. p.) of Cooper

Coopering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cooper

Cooper (v. t.) To do the work of a cooper upon; as, to cooper a cask or barrel.

Cooperage (n.) Work done by a cooper.

Cooperage (n.) The price paid for coopers; work.

Cooperage (n.) A place where coopers' work is done.

Cooperant (a.) Operating together; as, cooperant forces.

Cooperated (imp. & p. p.) of Cooperate

Cooperating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cooperate

Cooperate (v. i.) To act or operate jointly with another or others; to concur in action, effort, or effect.

Cooperation (n.) The act of cooperating, or of operating together to one end; joint operation; concurrent effort or labor.

Cooperation (n.) The association of a number of persons for their benefit.

Cooperative (a.) Operating jointly to the same end.

Cooperator (n.) One who labors jointly with others to promote the same end.

Cooper (n.) Work done by a cooper in making or repairing barrels, casks, etc.; the business of a cooper.

Coopery (a.) Relating to a cooper; coopered.

Coopery (n.) The occupation of a cooper.

Coopt (v. t.) To choose or elect in concert with another.

Cooptate (v. t.) To choose; to elect; to coopt.

Cooptation (n.) The act of choosing; selection; choice.

Coordain (v. t.) To ordain or appoint for some purpose along with another.

Coordinance (n.) Joint ordinance.

Coordinate (a.) Equal in rank or order; not subordinate.

Coordinated (imp. & p. p.) of Coordinate

Coordinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coordinate

Coordinate (v. t.) To make coordinate; to put in the same order or rank; as, to coordinate ideas in classification.

Coordinate (v. t.) To give a common action, movement, or condition to; to regulate and combine so as to produce harmonious action; to adjust; to harmonize; as, to coordinate muscular movements.

Coordinate (n.) A thing of the same rank with another thing; one two or more persons or things of equal rank, authority, or importance.

Coordinate (n.) Lines, or other elements of reference, by means of which the position of any point, as of a curve, is defined with respect to certain fixed lines, or planes, called coordinate axes and coordinate planes. See Abscissa.

Coordinately (adv.) In a coordinate manner.

Coordinateness (n.) The state of being coordinate; equality of rank or authority.

Coordination (n.) The act of coordinating; the act of putting in the same order, class, rank, dignity, etc.; as, the coordination of the executive, the legislative, and the judicial authority in forming a government; the act of regulating and combining so as to produce harmonious results; harmonious adjustment; as, a coordination of functions.

Coordination (n.) The state of being coordinate, or of equal rank, dignity, power, etc.

Coordinative (a.) Expressing coordination.

Coot (n.) A wading bird with lobate toes, of the genus Fulica.

Coot (n.) The surf duck or scoter. In the United States all the species of (/demia are called coots. See Scoter.

Coot (n.) A stupid fellow; a simpleton; as, a silly coot.

Cooter (n.) A fresh-water tortoise (Pseudemus concinna) of Florida.

Cooter (n.) The box tortoise.

Cootfoot (n.) The phalarope; -- so called because its toes are like the coot's.

Coothay (n.) A striped satin made in India.

Cop (n.) The top of a thing; the head; a crest.

Cop (n.) A conical or conical-ended mass of coiled thread, yarn, or roving, wound upon a spindle, etc.

Cop (n.) A tube or quill upon which silk is wound.

Cop (n.) Same as Merlon.

Cop (n.) A policeman.

Copaiba (n.) Alt. of Copaiva

Copaiva (n.) A more or less viscid, yellowish liquid, the bitter oleoresin of several species of Copaifera, a genus of trees growing in South America and the West Indies. It is stimulant and diuretic, and is much used in affections of the mucous membranes; -- called also balsam of copaiba.

Copal () A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees of Zanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum, T. verrucosum, and Hymenaea Courbaril), and dug from earth where forests have stood in Africa; -- used chiefly in making varnishes.

Coparcenaries (pl. ) of Coparcenary

Coparcenary (n.) Partnership in inheritance; joint heirship; joint right of succession to an inheritance.

Coparcener (n.) One who has an equal portion with others of an inheritance.

Coparceny (n.) An equal share of an inheritance.

Copart (v. t.) To share.

Copartment (n.) A compartment.

Copartner (n.) One who is jointly concerned with one or more persons in business, etc.; a partner; an associate; a partaker; a sharer.

Copartnership (n.) The state of being a copartner or of having a joint interest in any matter.

Copartnership (n.) A partnership or firm; as, A. and B. have this day formed a copartnership.

Copartneries (pl. ) of Copartnery

Copartnery (n.) the state of being copartners in any undertaking.

Copatain (a.) Having a high crown, or a point or peak at top.

Copatriot (n.) A joint patriot.

Cope (n.) A covering for the head.

Cope (n.) Anything regarded as extended over the head, as the arch or concave of the sky, the roof of a house, the arch over a door.

Cope (n.) An ecclesiastical vestment or cloak, semicircular in form, reaching from the shoulders nearly to the feet, and open in front except at the top, where it is united by a band or clasp. It is worn in processions and on some other occasions.

Cope (n.) An ancient tribute due to the lord of the soil, out of the lead mines in Derbyshire, England.

Cope (n.) The top part of a flask or mold; the outer part of a loam mold.

Cope (v. i.) To form a cope or arch; to bend or arch; to bow.

Cope (v. t.) To pare the beak or talons of (a hawk).

Coped (imp. & p. p.) of Cope

Coping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cope

Cope (v. i.) To exchange or barter.

Cope (v. i.) To encounter; to meet; to have to do with.

Cope (v. i.) To enter into or maintain a hostile contest; to struggle; to combat; especially, to strive or contend on equal terms or with success; to match; to equal; -- usually followed by with.

Cope (v. t.) To bargain for; to buy.

Cope (v. t.) To make return for; to requite; to repay.

Cope (v. t.) To match one's self against; to meet; to encounter.

Cope-chisel (n.) A narrow chisel adapted for cutting a groove.

Copeck (n.) A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck.

Coped (a.) Clad in a cope.

Copelata (n. pl.) See Larvalla.

Copeman (v. i.) A chapman; a dealer; a merchant.

Copepod (a.) Of or pertaining to the Copepoda.

Copepod (n.) One of the Copepoda.

Copepoda (n. pl.) An order of Entomostraca, including many minute Crustacea, both fresh-water and marine.

Copernican (a.) Pertaining to Copernicus, a Prussian by birth (b. 1473, d. 1543), who taught the world the solar system now received, called the Copernican system.

Copesmate (n.) An associate or companion; a friend; a partner.

Copestone (n.) A stone for coping. See Coping.

Copier (n.) One who copies; one who writes or transcribes from an original; a transcriber.

Copier (n.) An imitator; one who imitates an example; hence, a plagiarist.

Coping (n.) The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often with sloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping.

Copious (a.) Large in quantity or amount; plentiful; abundant; fruitful.

Copiously (adv.) In a copious manner.

Copiousness (n.) The state or quality of being copious; abudance; plenty; also, diffuseness in style.

Copist (n.) A copier.

Coplaner (a.) Situated in one plane.

Copland (n.) A piece of ground terminating in a point or acute angle.

Coportion (n.) Equal share.

Copped (a.) Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested.

Coppel (n. & v.) See Cupel.

Copper (n.) A common metal of a reddish color, both ductile and malleable, and very tenacious. It is one of the best conductors of heat and electricity. Symbol Cu. Atomic weight 63.3. It is one of the most useful metals in itself, and also in its alloys, brass and bronze.

Copper (n.) A coin made of copper; a penny, cent, or other minor coin of copper.

Copper (n.) A vessel, especially a large boiler, made of copper.

Copper (n.) the boilers in the galley for cooking; as, a ship's coppers.

Coppered (imp. & p. p.) of Copper

Coppering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Copper

Copper (v. t.) To cover or coat with copper; to sheathe with sheets of copper; as, to copper a ship.

Copperas (n.) Green vitriol, or sulphate of iron; a green crystalline substance, of an astringent taste, used in making ink, in dyeing black, as a tonic in medicine, etc. It is made on a large scale by the oxidation of iron pyrites. Called also ferrous sulphate.

Copper-bottomed (a.) Having a bottom made of copper, as a tin boiler or other vessel, or sheathed with copper, as a ship.

Copper-faced (a.) Faced or covered with copper; as, copper-faced type.

Copper-fastened (a.) Fastened with copper bolts, as the planks of ships, etc.; as, a copper-fastened ship.

Copperhead (n.) A poisonous American serpent (Ancistrodon conotortrix), closely allied to the rattlesnake, but without rattles; -- called also copper-belly, and red viper.

Copperhead (n.) A nickname applied to a person in the Northern States who sympathized with the South during the Civil War.

Coppering (n.) The act of covering with copper.

Coppering (n.) An envelope or covering of copper.

Copperish (a.) Containing, or partaking of the nature of, copper; like copper; as, a copperish taste.

Copper-nickel (n.) Niccolite.

Copper-nose (n.) A red nose.

Copperplate (n.) A plate of polished copper on which a design or writing is engraved.

Copperplate (n.) An impression on paper taken from such a plate.

Coppersmith (n.) One whose occupation is to manufacture copper utensils; a worker in copper.

Copper works () A place where copper is wrought or manufactured.

Copperworm (n.) The teredo; -- so called because it injures the bottoms of vessels, where not protected by copper.

Copperworm (n.) The ringworm.

Coppery (a.) Mixed with copper; containing copper, or made of copper; like copper.

Coppice (n.) A grove of small growth; a thicket of brushwood; a wood cut at certain times for fuel or other purposes. See Copse.

Coppin (n.) A cop of thread.

Copple (n.) Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hill rising to a point.

Copple-crown (n.) A created or high-topped crown or head.

Coppled (a.) Rising to a point; conical; copped.

Copple dust () Cupel dust.

Copplestone (n.) A cobblestone.

Copps (n.) See Copse.

Copra (n.) The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is expressed.

Coprolite (n.) A piece of petrified dung; a fossil excrement.

Coprolitic (a.) Containing, pertaining to, or of the nature of, coprolites.

Coprophagan (n.) A kind of beetle which feeds upon dung.

Coprophagous (a.) Feeding upon dung, as certain insects.

Cop-rose (n.) The red, or corn, poppy.

Cops (n.) The connecting crook of a harrow.

Copse (n.) A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.

Copse (v. t.) To trim or cut; -- said of small trees, brushwood, tufts of grass, etc.

Copse (v. t.) To plant and preserve, as a copse.

Copsewood (n.) Brushwood; coppice.

Copsy (a.) Characterized by copses.

Coptic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Copts.

Coptic (n.) The language of the Copts.

Copts (n. pl.) An Egyptian race thought to be descendants of the ancient Egyptians.

Copts (n. pl.) The principal sect of Christians in Egypt and the valley of the Nile.

Copula (n.) The word which unites the subject and predicate.

Copula (n.) The stop which connects the manuals, or the manuals with the pedals; -- called also coupler.

Copulate (a.) Joined; associated; coupled.

Copulate (a.) Joining subject and predicate; copulative.

Copulated (imp. & p. p.) of Copulate

Copulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Copulate

Copulate (v. i.) To unite in sexual intercourse; to come together in the act of generation.

Copulation (n.) The act of coupling or joining; union; conjunction.

Copulation (n.) The coming together of male and female in the act of generation; sexual union; coition.

Copulative (a.) Serving to couple, unite, or connect; as, a copulative conjunction like and.

Copulative (n.) Connection.

Copulative (n.) A copulative conjunction.

Copulatively (adv.) In a copulative manner.

Coplatry (a.) Pertaining to copulation; tending or serving to unite; copulative.

Coplatry (a.) Used in sexual union; as, the copulatory organs of insects.

Copies (pl. ) of Copy

Copy (n.) An abundance or plenty of anything.

Copy (n.) An imitation, transcript, or reproduction of an original work; as, a copy of a letter, an engraving, a painting, or a statue.

Copy (n.) An individual book, or a single set of books containing the works of an author; as, a copy of the Bible; a copy of the works of Addison.

Copy (n.) That which is to be imitated, transcribed, or reproduced; a pattern, model, or example; as, his virtues are an excellent copy for imitation.

Copy (n.) Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type; as, the printers are calling for more copy.

Copy (n.) A writing paper of a particular size. Same as Bastard. See under Paper.

Copy (n.) Copyhold; tenure; lease.

Copied (imp. & p. p.) of Copy

Copying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Copy

Copy (n.) To make a copy or copies of; to write; print, engrave, or paint after an original; to duplicate; to reproduce; to transcribe; as, to copy a manuscript, inscription, design, painting, etc.; -- often with out, sometimes with off.

Copy (n.) To imitate; to attempt to resemble, as in manners or course of life.

Copy (v. i.) To make a copy or copies; to imitate.

Copy (v. i.) To yield a duplicate or transcript; as, the letter did not copy well.

Copyer (n.) See Copier.

Copygraph (n.) A contrivance for producing manifold copies of a writing or drawing.

Copyhold (n.) A tenure of estate by copy of court roll; or a tenure for which the tenant has nothing to show, except the rolls made by the steward of the lord's court.

Copyhold (n.) Land held in copyhold.

Copyholder (n.) One possessed of land in copyhold.

Copyholder (n.) A device for holding copy for a compositor.

Copyholder (n.) One who reads copy to a proof reader.

Copying (a. & n.) From Copy, v.

Copyist (n.) A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist.

Copyright (n.) The right of an author or his assignee, under statute, to print and publish his literary or artistic work, exclusively of all other persons. This right may be had in maps, charts, engravings, plays, and musical compositions, as well as in books.

Copyright (v. t.) To secure a copyright on.

Coquelicot (n.) The wild poppy, or red corn rose.

Coquelicot (n.) The color of the wild poppy; a color nearly red, like orange mixed with scarlet.

Coquetted (imp. & p. p.) of Coquet

Coquetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coquet

Coquet (v. t.) To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; to treat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive and disappoint.

Coquet (v. i.) To trifle in love; to stimulate affection or interest; to play the coquette; to deal playfully instead of seriously; to play (with); as, we have coquetted with political crime.

Coquetries (pl. ) of Coquetry

Coquetry (n.) Attempts to attract admiration, notice, or love, for the mere gratification of vanity; trifling in love.

Coquette (n.) A vain, trifling woman, who endeavors to attract admiration from a desire to gratify vanity; a flirt; -- formerly sometimes applied also to men.

Coquette (n.) A tropical humming bird of the genus Lophornis, with very elegant neck plumes. Several species are known. See Illustration under Spangle, v. t.

Coquettish (a.) Practicing or exhibiting coquetry; alluring; enticing.

Coquettishly (adv.) In a coquettish manner.

Coquilla nut () The fruit of a Brazilian tree (Attalea funifera of Martius.).

Coquimbite (n.) A mineral consisting principally of sulphate of iron; white copperas; -- so called because found in the province of Coquimbo, Chili.

Coquina (n.) A soft, whitish, coral-like stone, formed of broken shells and corals, found in the southern United States, and used for roadbeds and for building material, as in the fort at St. Augustine, Florida.

Cor- () A prefix signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.

Cor (n.) A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer.

Cora (n.) The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia to North Africa.

Coracle (n.) A boat made by covering a wicker frame with leather or oilcloth. It was used by the ancient Britons, and is still used by fisherman in Wales and some parts of Ireland. Also, a similar boat used in Thibet and in Egypt.

Coracoid (a.) Shaped like a crow's beak.

Coracoid (a.) Pertaining to a bone of the shoulder girdle in most birds, reptiles, and amphibians, which is reduced to a process of the scapula in most mammals.

Coracoid (n.) The coracoid bone or process.

Corage (n.) See Courage

Coral (n.) The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a few Hydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa.

Coral (n.) The ovaries of a cooked lobster; -- so called from their color.

Coral (n.) A piece of coral, usually fitted with small bells and other appurtenances, used by children as a plaything.

Coraled (a.) Having coral; covered with coral.

Coral fish () Any bright-colored fish of the genera Chaetodon, Pomacentrus, Apogon, and related genera, which live among reef corals.

Corallaceous (a.) Like coral, or partaking of its qualities.

Corallian (n.) A deposit of coralliferous limestone forming a portion of the middle division of the oolite; -- called also coral-rag.

Coralliferous (a.) Containing or producing coral.

Coralliform (a.) resembling coral in form.

Coralligena (n. pl.) Same as Anthozoa.

Coralligenous (a.) producing coral; coralligerous; coralliferous.

Coralligerous (a.) Producing coral; coralliferous.

Corallin (n.) A yellow coal-tar dyestuff which probably consists chiefly of rosolic acid. See Aurin, and Rosolic acid under Rosolic.

Coralline (a.) Composed of corallines; as, coralline limestone.

Coralline (n.) A submarine, semicalcareous or calcareous plant, consisting of many jointed branches.

Coralline (n.) Formerly any slender coral-like animal; -- sometimes applied more particulary to bryozoan corals.

Corallinite (n.) A fossil coralline.

Corallite (n.) A mineral substance or petrifaction, in the form of coral.

Corallite (n.) One of the individual members of a compound coral; or that part formed by a single coral animal.

Coralloid (a.) Having the form of coral; branching like coral.

Coralloidal (a.) resembling coral; coralloid.

Corallum (n.) The coral or skeleton of a zoophyte, whether calcareous of horny, simple or compound. See Coral.

Coral-rag (n.) Same as Corallian.

Coralwort (n.) A cruciferous herb of certain species of Dentaria; -- called also toothwort, tooth violet, or pepper root.

Coranach (n.) A lamentation for the dead; a dirge.

Corant (n.) Alt. of Coranto

Coranto (n.) A sprightly but somewhat stately dance, now out of fashion.

Corb (n.) A basket used in coal mines, etc. see Corf.

Corb (n.) An ornament in a building; a corbel.

Corban (n.) An offering of any kind, devoted to God and therefore not to be appropriated to any other use; esp., an offering in fulfillment of a vow.

Corban (n.) An alms basket; a vessel to receive gifts of charity; a treasury of the church, where offerings are deposited.

Corbe (a.) Crooked.

Corbell (n.) A sculptured basket of flowers; a corbel.

Corbell (n.) Small gabions.

Corbel (n.) A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the spring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothic architecture.

Corbel (v. t.) To furnish with a corbel or corbels; to support by a corbel; to make in the form of a corbel.

Corbel-table (n.) A horizontal row of corbels, with the panels or filling between them; also, less properly used to include the stringcourse on them.

Corbies (pl. ) of Corby

Corbie (n.) Alt. of Corby

Corby (n.) The raven.

Corby (n.) A raven, crow, or chough, used as a charge.

Corbiestep (n.) One of the steps in which a gable wall is often finished in place of a continuous slope; -- also called crowstep.

Corchorus (n.) The common name of the Kerria Japonica or Japan globeflower, a yellow-flowered, perennial, rosaceous plant, seen in old-fashioned gardens.

Corcle (n.) Alt. of Corcule

Corcule (n.) The heart of the seed; the embryo or germ.

Cord (n.) A string, or small rope, composed of several strands twisted together.

Cord (n.) A solid measure, equivalent to 128 cubic feet; a pile of wood, or other coarse material, eight feet long, four feet high, and four feet broad; -- originally measured with a cord or line.

Cord (n.) Fig.: Any moral influence by which persons are caught, held, or drawn, as if by a cord; an enticement; as, the cords of the wicked; the cords of sin; the cords of vanity.

Cord (n.) Any structure having the appearance of a cord, esp. a tendon or a nerve. See under Spermatic, Spinal, Umbilical, Vocal.

Cord (n.) See Chord.

Corded (imp. & p. p.) of Cord

Cording (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cord

Cord (v. t.) To bind with a cord; to fasten with cords; to connect with cords; to ornament or finish with a cord or cords, as a garment.

Cord (v. t.) To arrange (wood, etc.) in a pile for measurement by the cord.

Cordage (n.) Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope or cord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes.

Cordal (n.) Same as Cordelle.

Cordate (a.) Heart-shaped; as, a cordate leaf.

Cordately (adv.) In a cordate form.

Corded (a.) Bound or fastened with cords.

Corded (a.) Piled in a form for measurement by the cord.

Corded (a.) Made of cords.

Corded (a.) Striped or ribbed with cords; as, cloth with a corded surface.

Corded (a.) Bound about, or wound, with cords.

Cordelier (n.) A Franciscan; -- so called in France from the girdle of knotted cord worn by all Franciscans.

Cordelier (n.) A member of a French political club of the time of the first Revolution, of which Danton and Marat were members, and which met in an old Cordelier convent in Paris.

Cordeling (a.) Twisting.

Cordelle (n.) A twisted cord; a tassel.

Cordial (a.) Proceeding from the heart.

Cordial (a.) Hearty; sincere; warm; affectionate.

Cordial (a.) Tending to revive, cheer, or invigorate; giving strength or spirits.

Cordial (n.) Anything that comforts, gladdens, and exhilarates.

Cordial (n.) Any invigorating and stimulating preparation; as, a peppermint cordial.

Cordial (n.) Aromatized and sweetened spirit, used as a beverage; a liqueur.

Cordialities (pl. ) of Cordiality

Cordiality (n.) Relation to the heart.

Cordiality (n.) Sincere affection and kindness; warmth of regard; heartiness.

Cordialize (v. t.) To make into a cordial.

Cordialize (v. t.) To render cordial; to reconcile.

Cordialize (v. i.) To grow cordial; to feel or express cordiality.

Cordially (adv.) In a cordial manner.

Cordialness (n.) Cordiality.

Cordierite (n.) See Iolite.

Cordoform (a.) Heart-shaped.

Cordillera (n.) A mountain ridge or chain.

Cordiner (n.) A cordwainer.

Cordon (n.) A cord or ribbon bestowed or borne as a badge of honor; a broad ribbon, usually worn after the manner of a baldric, constituting a mark of a very high grade in an honorary order. Cf. Grand cordon.

Cordon (n.) The cord worn by a Franciscan friar.

Cordon (n.) The coping of the scarp wall, which projects beyong the face of the wall a few inches.

Cordon (n.) A line or series of sentinels, or of military posts, inclosing or guarding any place or thing.

Cordon (n.) A rich and ornamental lace or string, used to secure a mantle in some costumes of state.

Cordonnet (n.) Doubled and twisted thread, made of coarse silk, and used for tassels, fringes, etc.

Cordovan (n.) Same as Cordwain. In England the name is applied to leather made from horsehide.

Corduroy (n.) A sort of cotton velveteen, having the surface raised in ridges.

Corduroy (n.) Trousers or breeches of corduroy.

Corduroy (v. t.) To form of logs laid side by side.

Cordwain (n.) A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskin tanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished, colored, gilded, or the like.

Cordwainer (n.) A worker in cordwain, or cordovan leather; a shoemaker.

Core (n.) A body of individuals; an assemblage.

Core (n.) A miner's underground working time or shift.

Core (n.) A Hebrew dry measure; a cor or homer.

Core (n.) The heart or inner part of a thing, as of a column, wall, rope, of a boil, etc.; especially, the central part of fruit, containing the kernels or seeds; as, the core of an apple or quince.

Core (n.) The center or inner part, as of an open space; as, the core of a square.

Core (n.) The most important part of a thing; the essence; as, the core of a subject.

Core (n.) The prtion of a mold which shapes the interior of a cylinder, tube, or other hollow casting, or which makes a hole in or through a casting; a part of the mold, made separate from and inserted in it, for shaping some part of the casting, the form of which is not determined by that of the pattern.

Core (n.) A disorder of sheep occasioned by worms in the liver.

Core (n.) The bony process which forms the central axis of the horns in many animals.

Cord (imp. & p. p.) of Core

Coring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Core

Core (v. t.) To take out the core or inward parts of; as, to core an apple.

Core (v. t.) To form by means of a core, as a hole in a casting.

Co-regent (n.) A joint regent or ruler.

Co-relation (n.) Corresponding relation.

Co-religionist (n.) One of the same religion with another.

Coreopsis (n.) A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two-horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed. C. tinctoria, of the Western plains, the commonest plant of the genus, has been used in dyeing.

Corer (n.) That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple corer.

Co-respondent (n.) One who is called upon to answer a summons or other proceeding jointly with another.

Corves (pl. ) of Corf

Corf (n.) A basket.

Corf (n.) A large basket used in carrying or hoisting coal or ore.

Corf (n.) A wooden frame, sled, or low-wheeled wagon, to convey coal or ore in the mines.

Corfiote (n.) Alt. of Corfute

Corfute (n.) A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the Mediterranean Sea.

Coriaceous (a.) Consisting of or resembling, leather; leatherlike; tough.

Coriaceous (a.) Stiff, like leather or parchment.

Coriander (n.) An umbelliferous plant, the Coriandrum sativum, the fruit or seeds of which have a strong smell and a spicy taste, and in medicine are considered as stomachic and carminative.

Coridine (n.) A colorless or yellowish oil, C10H15N, of a leathery odor, occuring in coal tar, Dippel's oil, tobacco smoke, etc., regarded as an organic base, homologous with pyridine. Also, one of a series of metameric compounds of which coridine is a type.

Corindon (n.) See Corrundum.

Corinne (n.) The common gazelle (Gazella dorcas). See Gazelle.

Corinth (n.) A city of Greece, famed for its luxury and extravagance.

Corinth (n.) A small fruit; a currant.

Corinthiac (a.) Pertaining to Corinth.

Corinthian (a.) Of or relating to Corinth.

Corinthian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Corinthian order of architecture, invented by the Greeks, but more commonly used by the Romans.

Corinthian (a.) Debauched in character or practice; impure.

Corinthian (a.) Of or pertaining to an amateur sailor or yachtsman; as, a corinthian race (one in which the contesting yachts must be manned by amateurs.)

Corinthian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Corinth.

Corinthian (n.) A gay, licentious person.

Corium (n.) Armor made of leather, particularly that used by the Romans; used also by Enlish soldiers till the reign of Edward I.

Corium (n.) Same as Dermis.

Corium (n.) The deep layer of mucous membranes beneath the epithelium.

Corival (n.) A rival; a corrival.

Corival (v. t.) To rival; to pretend to equal.

Corivalry (n.) Alt. of Corivalship

Corivalship (n.) Joint rivalry.

Cork (n.) The outer layer of the bark of the cork tree (Quercus Suber), of which stoppers for bottles and casks are made. See Cutose.

Cork (n.) A stopper for a bottle or cask, cut out of cork.

Cork (n.) A mass of tabular cells formed in any kind of bark, in greater or less abundance.

Corked (imp. & p. p.) of Cork

Corking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cork

Cork (v. t.) To stop with a cork, as a bottle.

Cork (v. t.) To furnish or fit with cork; to raise on cork.

Corkage (n.) The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and taking care of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest.

Corked (a.) having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottle of wine is corked.

Cork fossil () A variety of amianthus which is very light, like cork.

Corkiness (n.) The quality of being corky.

Corking pin () A pin of a large size, formerly used attaching a woman's headdress to a cork mold.

Corkscrew (n.) An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corks from bottles.

Corkscrew (v. t.) To press forward in a winding way; as, to corkscrew one's way through a crowd.

Corkwing (n.) A fish; the goldsinny.

Corky (a.) Consisting of, or like, cork; dry shriveled up.

Corky (a.) Tasting of cork.

Corm (n.) A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb.

Corm (n.) Same as Cormus, 2.

Cormogeny (n.) The embryological history of groups or families of individuals.

Cormophylogeny (n.) The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals.

Cormophytes (n. pl.) Alt. of Cormophyta

Cormophyta (n. pl.) A term proposed by Endlicher to include all plants with an axis containing vascular tissue and with foliage.

Cormorant (n.) Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sac under the beak; the shag. Cormorants devour fish voraciously, and have become the emblem of gluttony. They are generally black, and hence are called sea ravens, and coalgeese.

Cormorant (n.) A voracious eater; a glutton, or gluttonous servant.

Cormoraut (a.) Ravenous; voracious.

Cormus (n.) See Corm.

Cormus (n.) A vegetable or animal made up of a number of individuals, such as, for example, would be formed by a process of budding from a parent stalk wherre the buds remain attached.

Corn (n.) A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toes, by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome.

Corn (n.) A single seed of certain plants, as wheat, rye, barley, and maize; a grain.

Corn (n.) The various farinaceous grains of the cereal grasses used for food, as wheat, rye, barley, maize, oats.

Corn (n.) The plants which produce corn, when growing in the field; the stalks and ears, or the stalks, ears, and seeds, after reaping and before thrashing.

Corn (n.) A small, hard particle; a grain.

Corned (imp. & p. p.) of Corn

Corning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corn

Corn (v. t.) To preserve and season with salt in grains; to sprinkle with salt; to cure by salting; now, specifically, to salt slightly in brine or otherwise; as, to corn beef; to corn a tongue.

Corn (v. t.) To form into small grains; to granulate; as, to corn gunpowder.

Corn (v. t.) To feed with corn or (in Sctland) oats; as, to corn horses.

Corn (v. t.) To render intoxicated; as, ale strong enough to corn one.

Cornage (n.) Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to give notice of an invasion by blowing a horn.

Cornamute (n.) A cornemuse.

Cornbind (n.) A weed that binds stalks of corn, as Convolvulus arvensis, Polygonum Convolvulus.

Corncob (n.) The cob or axis on which the kernels of Indian corn grow.

Corncrake (n.) A bird (Crex crex or C. pratensis) which frequents grain fields; the European crake or land rail; -- called also corn bird.

Corncrib (n.) A crib for storing corn.

Corncutter (n.) A machine for cutting up stalks of corn for food of cattle.

Corncutter (n.) An implement consisting of a long blade, attached to a handle at nearly a right angle, used for cutting down the stalks of Indian corn.

Corndodger (n.) A cake made of the meal of Indian corn, wrapped in a covering of husks or paper, and baked under the embers.

Corneas (pl. ) of Cornea

Cornea (n.) The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which covers the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye.

Corneal (a.) Pertaining to the cornea.

Cornel (n.) The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub with clusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edible drupes resembling cherries.

Cornel (n.) Any species of the genus Cornus, as C. florida, the flowering cornel; C. stolonifera, the osier cornel; C. Canadensis, the dwarf cornel, or bunchberry.

Cornelian (n.) Same as Carnelian.

Cornemuse (n.) A wind instrument nearly identical with the bagpipe.

Corneocalcareous (a.) Formed of a mixture of horny and calcareous materials, as some shells and corals.

Corneocalcareous (a.) Horny on one side and calcareous on the other.

Corneouss (a.) Of a texture resembling horn; horny; hard.

Corner (n.) The point where two converging lines meet; an angle, either external or internal.

Corner (n.) The space in the angle between converging lines or walls which meet in a point; as, the chimney corner.

Corner (n.) An edge or extremity; the part farthest from the center; hence, any quarter or part.

Corner (n.) A secret or secluded place; a remote or out of the way place; a nook.

Corner (n.) Direction; quarter.

Corner (n.) The state of things produced by a combination of persons, who buy up the whole or the available part of any stock or species of property, which compels those who need such stock or property to buy of them at their own price; as, a corner in a railway stock.

Cornered (imp. & p. p.) of Corner

Cornering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corner

Corner (v. t.) To drive into a corner.

Corner (v. t.) To drive into a position of great difficulty or hopeless embarrassment; as, to corner a person in argument.

Corner (v. t.) To get command of (a stock, commodity, etc.), so as to be able to put one's own price on it; as, to corner the shares of a railroad stock; to corner petroleum.

Cornercap (n.) The chief ornament.

Cornered (p. a.) 1 Having corners or angles.

Cornered (p. a.) In a possition of great difficulty; brought to bay.

Cornerwise (adv.) With the corner in front; diagonally; not square.

Cornet (n.) An obsolete rude reed instrument (Ger. Zinken), of the oboe family.

Cornet (n.) A brass instrument, with cupped mouthpiece, and furnished with valves or pistons, now used in bands, and, in place of the trumpet, in orchestras. See Cornet-a-piston.

Cornet (n.) A certain organ stop or register.

Cornet (n.) A cap of paper twisted at the end, used by retailers to inclose small wares.

Cornet (n.) A troop of cavalry; -- so called from its being accompanied by a cornet player.

Cornet (n.) The standard of such a troop.

Cornet (n.) The lowest grade of commissioned officer in a British cavalry troop, who carried the standard. The office was abolished in 1871.

Cornet (n.) A headdress

Cornet (n.) A square cap anciently worn as a mark of certain professions.

Cornet (n.) A part of a woman's headdress, in the 16th century.

Cornet (n.) See Coronet, 2.

Cornets-a-piston (pl. ) of Cornet-a-piston

Cornet-a-piston (n.) A brass wind instrument, like the trumpet, furnished with valves moved by small pistons or sliding rods; a cornopean; a cornet.

Cornetcy (n.) The commission or rank of a cornet.

Corneter (n.) One who blows a cornet.

Corneule (n.) One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates.

Cornfield (n.) A field where corn is or has been growing; -- in England, a field of wheat, rye, barley, or oats; in America, a field of Indian corn.

Cornfloor (n.) A thrashing floor.

Cornflower (n.) A conspicuous wild flower (Centaurea Cyanus), growing in grainfields.

Cornic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornus florida).

Cornice (n.) Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection which crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed; as, the cornice of an order, pedestal, door, window, or house.

Corniced (a.) Having a cornice.

Cornicle (n.) A little horn.

Cornicular (n.) A secretary or clerk.

Cor/niculate (a.) Horned; having horns.

Cor/niculate (a.) Having processes resembling small horns.

Cornicula (pl. ) of Corniculum

Corniculum (n.) A small hornlike part or process.

Corniferous (a.) Of or pertaining to the lowest period of the Devonian age. (See the Diagram, under Geology.) The Corniferous period has been so called from the numerous seams of hornstone which characterize the later part of the period, as developed in the State of New York.

Cornific (a.) Producing horns; forming horn.

Cornification (n.) Conversion into, or formation of, horn; a becoming like horn.

Cornified (a.) Converted into horn; horny.

Corniform (a.) Having the shape of a horn; horn-shaped.

Cornigerous (a.) Horned; having horns; as, cornigerous animals.

Cornin (n.) A bitter principle obtained from dogwood (Cornus florida), as a white crystalline substance; -- called also cornic acid.

Cornin (n.) An extract from dogwood used as a febrifuge.

Corniplume (n.) A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds.

Cornish (a.) Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England.

Cornish (n.) The dialect, or the people, of Cornwall.

Cornist (n.) A performer on the cornet or horn.

Cornloft (n.) A loft for corn; a granary.

Cornmuse (n.) A cornemuse.

Corni (-n/) di basseto (pl. ) of Corno di bassetto

Corno di bassetto () A tenor clarinet; -- called also basset horn, and sometimes confounded with the English horn, which is a tenor oboe.

Corni Inglesi (pl. ) of Corno Inglese

Corno Inglese () A reed instrument, related to the oboe, but deeper in pitch; the English horn.

Cornopean (n.) An obsolete name for the cornet-a-piston.

Cornsheller (n.) A machine that separates the kernels of corn from the cob.

Cornshuck (n.) The husk covering an ear of Indian corn.

Cornstalk (n.) A stalk of Indian corn.

Cornstarch (n.) Starch made from Indian corn, esp. a fine white flour used for puddings, etc.

Cornua (pl. ) of Cornu

Cornu (n.) A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn.

Cornua Ammonis (pl. ) of Cornu Ammonis

Cornu Ammonis () A fossil shell, curved like a ram's horn; an obsolete name for an ammonite.

Cornucopias (pl. ) of Cornucopia

Cornucopia (n.) The horn of plenty, from which fruits and flowers are represented as issuing. It is an emblem of abundance.

Cornucopia (n.) A genus of grasses bearing spikes of flowers resembling the cornucopia in form.

Cornute (a.) Alt. of Cornuted

Cornuted (a.) Bearing horns; horned; horn-shaped.

Cornuted (a.) Cuckolded.

Cornute (v. t.) To bestow horns upon; to make a cuckold of; to cuckold.

Cornuto (n.) A man that wears the horns; a cuckold.

Cornutor (n.) A cuckold maker.

Corny (a.) Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn.

Corny (a.) Producing corn or grain; furnished with grains of corn.

Corny (a.) Containing corn; tasting well of malt.

Corny (a.) Tipsy.

Corocore (n.) A kind of boat of various forms, used in the Indian Archipelago.

Corody (n.) An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey or other religious house for the sustenance of such of the king's servants as he may designate to receive it.

Corol (n.) A corolla.

Corolla (n.) The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds the organs of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, called petals. It is usually distinguished from the calyx by the fineness of its texture and the gayness of its colors. See the Note under Blossom.

Corollaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a corolla; having the form or texture of a corolla.

Corollaries (pl. ) of Corollary

Corollary (n.) That which is given beyond what is actually due, as a garland of flowers in addition to wages; surplus; something added or superfluous.

Corollary (n.) Something which follows from the demonstration of a proposition; an additional inference or deduction from a demonstrated proposition; a consequence.

Corollate (a.) Alt. of Corollated

Corollated (a.) Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.

Corollet (n.) A floret in an aggregate flower.

Corollifloral (a.) Alt. of Corolliflorous

Corolliflorous (a.) Having the stamens borne on the petals, and the latter free from the calyx. Compare Calycifloral and Thalamifloral.

Corolline (a.) Of or pertaining to a corolla.

Coromandel (n.) The west coast, or a portion of the west coast, of the Bay of Bengal.

Coronae (pl. ) of Corona

Coronas (pl. ) of Corona

Corona (n.) A crown or garland bestowed among the Romans as a reward for distinguished services.

Corona (n.) The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side of which is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. See Illust. of Column.

Corona (n.) The upper surface of some part, as of a tooth or the skull; a crown.

Corona (n.) The shelly skeleton of a sea urchin.

Corona (n.) A peculiar luminous appearance, or aureola, which surrounds the sun, and which is seen only when the sun is totally eclipsed by the moon.

Corona (n.) An inner appendage to a petal or a corolla, often forming a special cup, as in the daffodil and jonquil.

Corona (n.) Any crownlike appendage at the top of an organ.

Corona (n.) A circle, usually colored, seen in peculiar states of the atmosphere around and close to a luminous body, as the sun or moon.

Corona (n.) A peculiar phase of the aurora borealis, formed by the concentration or convergence of luminous beams around the point in the heavens indicated by the direction of the dipping needle.

Corona (n.) A crown or circlet suspended from the roof or vaulting of churches, to hold tapers lighted on solemn occasions. It is sometimes formed of double or triple circlets, arranged pyramidically. Called also corona lucis.

Corona (n.) A character [/] called the pause or hold.

Coronach (n.) See Coranach.

Coronal (a.) Of or pertaining to a corona (in any of the senses).

Coronal (a.) Of or pertaining to a king's crown, or coronation.

Coronal (a.) Of or pertaining to the top of the head or skull.

Coronal (a.) Of or pertaining to the shell of a sea urchin.

Coronal (n.) A crown; wreath; garland.

Coronal (n.) The frontal bone, over which the ancients wore their coronae or garlands.

Coronamen (n.) The upper margin of a hoof; a coronet.

Coronary (a.) Of or pertaining to a crown; forming, or adapted to form, a crown or garland.

Coronary (a.) Resembling, or situated like, a crown or circlet; as, the coronary arteries and veins of the heart.

Coronary (n.) A small bone in the foot of a horse.

Coronary (n.) Informal shortening of coronary thrombosis, also used generally to mean heart attack.

Coronate (a.) Alt. of Coronated

Coronated (a.) Having or wearing a crown.

Coronated (a.) Having the coronal feathers lengthened or otherwise distinguished; -- said of birds.

Coronated (a.) Girt about the spire with a row of tubercles or spines; -- said of spiral shells.

Coronated (a.) Having a crest or a crownlike appendage.

Coronation (n.) The act or solemnity of crowning a sovereign; the act of investing a prince with the insignia of royalty, on his succeeding to the sovereignty.

Coronation (n.) The pomp or assembly at a coronation.

Coronel (n.) A colonel.

Coronel (n.) The iron head of a tilting spear, divided into two, three, or four blunt points.

Coroner (n.) An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire, with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden or mysterious death, or death in prison, usually on sight of the body and at the place where the death occurred.

Coronet (n.) An ornamental or honorary headdress, having the shape and character of a crown; particularly, a crown worn as the mark of high rank lower than sovereignty. The word is used by Shakespeare to denote also a kingly crown.

Coronet (n.) The upper part of a horse's hoof, where the horn terminates in skin.

Coronet (n.) The iron head of a tilting spear; a coronel.

Coroneted (a.) Wearing, or entitled to wear, a coronet; of noble birth or rank.

Coroniform (a.) Having the form of a crown or coronet; resembling a crown.

Coronilla (n.) A genus of plants related to the clover, having their flowers arranged in little heads or tufts resembling coronets.

Coronis (n.) In Greek grammar, a sign ['] sometimes placed over a contracted syllable.

Coronis (n.) The curved line or flourish at the end of a book or chapter; hence, the end.

Coronoid (a.) Resembling the beak of a crow; as, the coronoid process of the jaw, or of the ulna.

Coronule (n.) A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds. See Pappus.

Coroun (v. & n.) Crown.

Corozo (n.) Alt. of Corosso

Corosso (n.) The name in Central America for the seed of a true palm; also, a commercial name for the true ivory nut. See Ivory nut.

Corporace (n.) See Corporas.

Corporal (n.) A noncommissioned officer, next below a sergeant. In the United States army he is the lowest noncommissioned officer in a company of infantry. He places and relieves sentinels.

Corporal (a.) Belonging or relating to the body; bodily.

Corporal (a.) Having a body or substance; not spiritual; material. In this sense now usually written corporeal.

Corporal (a.) Alt. of Corporale

Corporale (a.) A fine linen cloth, on which the sacred elements are consecrated in the eucharist, or with which they are covered; a communion cloth.

Corporalities (pl. ) of Corporality

Corporality (n.) The state of being or having a body; bodily existence; corporeality; -- opposed to spirituality.

Corporality (n.) A confraternity; a guild.

Corporally (adv.) In or with the body; bodily; as, to be corporally present.

Corporalship (n.) A corporal's office.

Corporas (n.) The corporal, or communion cloth.

Corporate (a.) Formed into a body by legal enactment; united in an association, and endowed by law with the rights and liabilities of an individual; incorporated; as, a corporate town.

Corporate (a.) Belonging to a corporation or incorporated body.

Corporate (a.) United; general; collectively one.

Corporate (v. t.) To incorporate.

Corporate (v. i.) To become incorporated.

Corporately (adv.) In a corporate capacity; acting as a corporate body.

Corporately (adv.) In, or as regarda, the body.

Corporation (n.) A body politic or corporate, formed and authorized by law to act as a single person, and endowed by law with the capacity of succession; a society having the capacity of transacting business as an individual.

Corporator (n.) A member of a corporation, esp. one of the original members.

Corporature (n.) The state of being embodied; bodily existence.

Corporeal (a.) Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material body or substance; material; -- opposed to spiritual or immaterial.

Corporealism (n.) Materialism.

Corporealist (n.) One who denies the reality of spiritual existences; a materialist.

Corporealities (pl. ) of Corporeality

Corporeality (n.) The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.

Corporeally (adv.) In the body; in a bodily form or manner.

Corporealness (n.) Corporeality; corporeity.

Corporeity (n.) The state of having a body; the state of being corporeal; materiality.

Corporify (v. t.) To embody; to form into a body.

Corposant (n.) St. Elmo's fire. See under Saint.

Corps (n. sing. & pl.) The human body, whether living or dead.

Corps (n. sing. & pl.) A body of men; esp., an organized division of the military establishment; as, the marine corps; the corps of topographical engineers; specifically, an army corps.

Corps (n. sing. & pl.) A body or code of laws.

Corps (n. sing. & pl.) The land with which a prebend or other ecclesiastical office is endowed.

Corpse (n.) A human body in general, whether living or dead; -- sometimes contemptuously.

Corpse (n.) The dead body of a human being; -- used also Fig.

Corpulence (n.) Alt. of Corpulency

Corpulency (n.) Excessive fatness; fleshiness; obesity.

Corpulency (n.) Thickness; density; compactness.

Corpulent (a.) Very fat; obese.

Corpulent (a.) Solid; gross; opaque.

Corpulently (adv.) In a corpulent manner.

Corpora (pl. ) of Corpus

Corpus (n.) A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing.

Corpora callosa (pl. ) of Corpus

Corpora lutea (pl. ) of Corpus

Corpora striata (pl. ) of Corpus

Corpuscle (n.) A minute particle; an atom; a molecule.

Corpuscle (n.) A protoplasmic animal cell; esp., such as float free, like blood, lymph, and pus corpuscles; or such as are imbedded in an intercellular matrix, like connective tissue and cartilage corpuscles. See Blood.

Corpuscular (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, corpuscles, or small particles.

Corpuscularian (a.) Corpuscular.

Corpuscularian (n.) An adherent of the corpuscular philosophy.

Corpuscule (n.) A corpuscle.

Corpusculous (a.) Corpuscular.

Corrade (v. t.) To gnaw into; to wear away; to fret; to consume.

Corrade (v. t.) To erode, as the bed of a stream. See Corrosion.

Corradial (a.) Radiating to or from the same point.

Corradiate (v. t.) To converge to one point or focus, as light or rays.

Corradiation (n.) A conjunction or concentration of rays in one point.

Corral (n.) A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, by emigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of security for horses, cattle, etc.

Corraled (imp. & p. p.) of Corral

Corralling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corral

Corral (v. t.) To surround and inclose; to coop up; to put into an inclosed space; -- primarily used with reference to securing horses and cattle in an inclosure of wagons while traversing the plains, but in the Southwestern United States now colloquially applied to the capturing, securing, or penning of anything.

Corrasion (n.) The erosion of the bed of a stream by running water, principally by attrition of the detritus carried along by the stream, but also by the solvent action of the water.

Corrasive (a.) Corrosive.

Correct (a.) Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth, rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; not faulty or imperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views.

Corrected (imp. & p. p.) of Correct

Correcting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Correct

Correct (v. t.) To make right; to bring to the standard of truth, justice, or propriety; to rectify; as, to correct manners or principles.

Correct (v. t.) To remove or retrench the faults or errors of; to amend; to set right; as, to correct the proof (that is, to mark upon the margin the changes to be made, or to make in the type the changes so marked).

Correct (v. t.) To bring back, or attempt to bring back, to propriety in morals; to reprove or punish for faults or deviations from moral rectitude; to chastise; to discipline; as, a child should be corrected for lying.

Correct (v. t.) To counteract the qualities of one thing by those of another; -- said of whatever is wrong or injurious; as, to correct the acidity of the stomach by alkaline preparations.

Correctible (a.) Alt. of Correctable

Correctable (a.) Capable of being corrected.

Correctify (v. t.) To correct.

Correction (n.) The act of correcting, or making that right which was wrong; change for the better; amendment; rectification, as of an erroneous statement.

Correction (n.) The act of reproving or punishing, or that which is intended to rectify or to cure faults; punishment; discipline; chastisement.

Correction (n.) That which is substituted in the place of what is wrong; an emendation; as, the corrections on a proof sheet should be set in the margin.

Correction (n.) Abatement of noxious qualities; the counteraction of what is inconvenient or hurtful in its effects; as, the correction of acidity in the stomach.

Correction (n.) An allowance made for inaccuracy in an instrument; as, chronometer correction; compass correction.

Correctional (a.) Tending to, or intended for, correction; used for correction; as, a correctional institution.

Correctioner (n.) One who is, or who has been, in the house of correction.

Corrective (a.) Having the power to correct; tending to rectify; as, corrective penalties.

Corrective (a.) Qualifying; limiting.

Corrective (n.) That which has the power of correcting, altering, or counteracting what is wrong or injurious; as, alkalies are correctives of acids; penalties are correctives of immoral conduct.

Corrective (n.) Limitation; restriction.

Correctly (adv.) In a correct manner; exactly; acurately; without fault or error.

Correctness (n.) The state or quality of being correct; as, the correctness of opinions or of manners; correctness of taste; correctness in writing or speaking; the correctness of a text or copy.

Corrector (n.) One who, or that which, corrects; as, a corrector of abuses; a corrector of the press; an alkali is a corrector of acids.

Correctory (a.) Containing or making correction; corrective.

Correctress (n.) A woman who corrects.

Corregidor (n.) The chief magistrate of a Spanish town.

Correi (n.) A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies.

Correlatable (a.) Such as can be correlated; as, correlatable phenomena.

Correlated (imp. & p. p.) of Correlate

Correlating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Correlate

Correlate (v. i.) To have reciprocal or mutual relations; to be mutually related.

Correlate (v. t.) To put in relation with each other; to connect together by the disclosure of a mutual relation; as, to correlate natural phenomena.

Correlate (n.) One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation to something else, as father to son; a correlative.

Correlation (n.) Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism of relation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving place to, one another, under certain conditions; as, the correlation of forces, or of zymotic diseases.

Correlative (a.) Having or indicating a reciprocal relation.

Correlative (n.) One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation, or is correlated, to some other person or thing.

Correlative (n.) The antecedent of a pronoun.

Correlatively (adv.) In a correlative relation.

Correlativeness (n.) Quality of being correlative.

Correligionist (n.) A co-religion/ist.

Correption (n.) Chiding; reproof; reproach.

Corresponded (imp. & p. p.) of Correspond

Corresponding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Correspond

Correspond (v. i.) To be like something else in the dimensions and arrangement of its parts; -- followed by with or to; as, concurring figures correspond with each other throughout.

Correspond (v. i.) To be adapted; to be congruous; to suit; to agree; to fit; to answer; -- followed by to.

Correspond (v. i.) To have intercourse or communion; especially, to hold intercourse or to communicate by sending and receiving letters; -- followed by with.

Correspondence (n.) Friendly intercourse; reciprocal exchange of civilities; especially, intercourse between persons by means of letters.

Correspondence (n.) The letters which pass between correspondents.

Correspondence (n.) Mutual adaptation, relation, or agreement, of one thing to another; agreement; congruity; fitness; relation.

Correspondencies (pl. ) of Correspondency

Correspondency (n.) Same as Correspondence, 3.

Correspondent (a.) Suitable; adapted; fit; corresponding; congruous; conformable; in accord or agreement; obedient; willing.

Correspondent (n.) One with whom intercourse is carried on by letter.

Correspondent (n.) One who communicates information, etc., by letter or telegram to a newspaper or periodical.

Correspondent (n.) One who carries on commercial intercourse by letter or telegram with a person or firm at a distance.

Correspondently (adv.) In a a corresponding manner; conformably; suitably.

Corresponding (a.) Answering; conformable; agreeing; suiting; as, corresponding numbers.

Corresponding (a.) Carrying on intercourse by letters.

Correspondingly (adv.) In a corresponding manner; conformably.

Corresponsive (a.) Corresponding; conformable; adapted.

Corridor (n.) A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of a house.

Corridor (n.) The covered way lying round the whole compass of the fortifications of a place.

Corrie (n.) Same as Correi.

Corrigenda (pl. ) of Corrigendum

Corrigendum (n.) A fault or error to be corrected.

Corrigent (n.) A substance added to a medicine to mollify or modify its action.

Corrigibility (n.) Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected; corrigibleness.

Corrigible (a.) Capable of being set right, amended, or reformed; as, a corrigible fault.

Corrigible (a.) Submissive to correction; docile.

Corrigible (a.) Deserving chastisement; punishable.

Corrigible (a.) Having power to correct; corrective.

Corrigibleness (n.) The state or quality of being corrigible; corrigibility.

Corrival (n.) A fellow rival; a competitor; a rival; also, a companion.

Corrival (a.) Having rivaling claims; emulous; in rivalry.

Corrival (v. i. & t.) To compete with; to rival.

Corrivalry (n.) Corivalry.

Corrivalship (n.) Corivalry.

Corrivate (v. t.) To cause to flow together, as water drawn from several streams.

Corrivation (n.) The flowing of different streams into one.

Corroborant (a.) Strengthening; supporting; corroborating.

Corroborant (n.) Anything which gives strength or support; a tonic.

Corroborated (imp. & p. p.) of Corroborate

Corroborating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corroborate

Corroborate (v. t.) To make strong, or to give additional strength to; to strengthen.

Corroborate (v. t.) To make more certain; to confirm; to establish.

Corroborate (a.) Corroborated.

Corroboration (n.) The act of corroborating, strengthening, or confirming; addition of strength; confirmation; as, the corroboration of an argument, or of information.

Corroboration (n.) That which corroborates.

Corroborative (a.) Tending to strengthen of confirm.

Corroborative (n.) A medicine that strengthens; a corroborant.

Corroboratory (a.) Tending to strengthen; corroborative; as, corroboratory facts.

Corroded (imp. & p. p.) of Corrode

Corroding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corrode

Corrode (v. t.) To eat away by degrees; to wear away or diminish by gradually separating or destroying small particles of, as by action of a strong acid or a caustic alkali.

Corrode (v. t.) To consume; to wear away; to prey upon; to impair.

Corrode (v. i.) To have corrosive action; to be subject to corrosion.

Corrodent (a.) Corrosive.

Corrodent (n.) Anything that corrodes.

Corrodiate (v. t.) To eat away by degrees; to corrode.

Corrodibility (n.) The quality of being corrodible.

Corrodible (a.) Capable of being corroded; corrosible.

Corrosibility (n.) Corrodibility.

Corrosible (a.) Corrodible.

Corrosibleness (n.) The quality or state of being corrosible.

Corrosion (n.) The action or effect of corrosive agents, or the process of corrosive change; as, the rusting of iron is a variety of corrosion.

Corrosive (a.) Eating away; having the power of gradually wearing, changing, or destroying the texture or substance of a body; as, the corrosive action of an acid.

Corrosive (a.) Having the quality of fretting or vexing.

Corrosive (n.) That which has the quality of eating or wearing away gradually.

Corrosive (n.) That which has the power of fretting or irritating.

Corroval (n.) A dark brown substance of vegetable origin, allied to curare, and used by the natives of New Granada as an arrow poison.

Corrovaline (n.) A poisonous alkaloid extracted from corroval, and characterized by its immediate action in paralyzing the heart.

Corrugant (a.) Having the power of contracting into wrinkles.

Corrugate (a.) Wrinkled; crumpled; furrowed; contracted into ridges and furrows.

Corrugated (imp. & p. p.) of Corrugate

Corrugating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corrugate

Corrugate (v. t.) To form or shape into wrinkles or folds, or alternate ridges and grooves, as by drawing, contraction, pressure, bending, or otherwise; to wrinkle; to purse up; as, to corrugate plates of iron; to corrugate the forehead.

Corrugation (n.) The act corrugating; contraction into wrinkles or alternate ridges and grooves.

Corrugator (n.) A muscle which contracts the skin of the forehead into wrinkles.

Corrugent (a.) Drawing together; contracting; -- said of the corrugator.

Corrump (v. t.) To corrupt. See Corrupt.

Corrumpable (a.) Corruptible.

Corrupt (a.) Changed from a sound to a putrid state; spoiled; tainted; vitiated; unsound.

Corrupt (a.) Changed from a state of uprightness, correctness, truth, etc., to a worse state; vitiated; depraved; debased; perverted; as, corrupt language; corrupt judges.

Corrupt (a.) Abounding in errors; not genuine or correct; as, the text of the manuscript is corrupt.

Corrupted (imp. & p. p.) of Corrupt

Corrupting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corrupt

Corrupt (v. t.) To change from a sound to a putrid or putrescent state; to make putrid; to putrefy.

Corrupt (v. t.) To change from good to bad; to vitiate; to deprave; to pervert; to debase; to defile.

Corrupt (v. t.) To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty; as, to corrupt a judge by a bribe.

Corrupt (v. t.) To debase or render impure by alterations or innovations; to falsify; as, to corrupt language; to corrupt the sacred text.

Corrupt (v. t.) To waste, spoil, or consume; to make worthless.

Corrupt (v. i.) To become putrid or tainted; to putrefy; to rot.

Corrupt (v. i.) To become vitiated; to lose putity or goodness.

Corrupter (n.) One who corrupts; one who vitiates or taints; as, a corrupter of morals.

Corruptful (a.) Tending to corrupt; full of corruption.

Corruptibility (n.) The quality of being corruptible; the possibility or liability of being corrupted; corruptibleness.

Corruptible (a.) Capable of being made corrupt; subject to decay.

Corruptible (a.) Capable of being corrupted, or morally vitiated; susceptible of depravation.

Corruptible (n.) That which may decay and perish; the human body.

Corruptingly (adv.) In a manner that corrupts.

Corruption (n.) The act of corrupting or making putrid, or state of being corrupt or putrid; decomposition or disorganization, in the process of putrefaction; putrefaction; deterioration.

Corruption (n.) The product of corruption; putrid matter.

Corruption (n.) The act of corrupting or of impairing integrity, virtue, or moral principle; the state of being corrupted or debased; loss of purity or integrity; depravity; wickedness; impurity; bribery.

Corruption (n.) The act of changing, or of being changed, for the worse; departure from what is pure, simple, or correct; as, a corruption of style; corruption in language.

Corruptionist (n.) One who corrupts, or who upholds corruption.

Corruptive (a.) Having the quality of taining or vitiating; tending to produce corruption.

Corruptless (a.) Not susceptible of corruption or decay; incorruptible.

Corruptly (adv.) In a corrupt manner; by means of corruption or corrupting influences; wrongfully.

Corruptness (n.) The quality of being corrupt.

Corruptress (n.) A woman who corrupts.

Corsac (n.) The corsak.

Corsage (n.) The waist or bodice of a lady's dress; as, a low corsage.

Corsage (n.) a flower or small arrangement of flowers worn by a person as a personal ornament. Typically worn by women on special occasions (as, at a ball or an anniversary celebration), a corsage may be worn pinned to the chest, or tied to the wrist. It is usually larger or more elaborate than a boutonniere.

Corsair (n.) A pirate; one who cruises about without authorization from any government, to seize booty on sea or land.

Corsair (n.) A piratical vessel.

Corsak (n.) A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac), found in Central Asia.

Corse (n.) A living body or its bulk.

Corse (n.) A corpse; the dead body of a human being.

Corselet (n.) Armor for the body, as, the body breastplate and backpiece taken together; -- also, used for the entire suit of the day, including breastplate and backpiece, tasset and headpiece.

Corselet (n.) The thorax of an insect.

Corsepresent (n.) An offering made to the church at the interment of a dead body.

Corset (n.) In the Middle Ages, a gown or basque of which the body was close fitting, worn by both men and women.

Corset (n.) An article of dress inclosing the chest and waist worn (chiefly by women) to support the body or to modify its shape; stays.

Corseted (imp. & p. p.) of Corset

Corseting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corset

Corset (v. t.) To inclose in corsets.

Corslet (n.) A corselet.

Corsned (n.) The morsel of execration; a species of ordeal consisting in the eating of a piece of bread consecrated by imprecation. If the suspected person ate it freely, he was pronounced innocent; but if it stuck in his throat, it was considered as a proof of his guilt.

Cortege (n.) A train of attendants; a procession.

Cortes (n. pl.) The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, and representatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, in some measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain.

Cortices (pl. ) of Cortex

Cortex (n.) Bark, as of a tree; hence, an outer covering.

Cortex (n.) Bark; rind; specifically, cinchona bark.

Cortex (n.) The outer or superficial part of an organ; as, the cortex or gray exterior substance of the brain.

Cortical (a.) Belonging to, or consisting of, bark or rind; resembling bark or rind; external; outer; superficial; as, the cortical substance of the kidney.

Corticate (a.) Alt. of Corticated

Corticated (a.) Having a special outer covering of a nature unlike the interior part.

Corticifer (n.) One of the Gorgoniacea; -- so called because the fleshy part surrounds a solid axis, like a bark.

Corticiferous (a.) Producing bark or something that resembling that resembles bark.

Corticiferous (a.) Having a barklike c/nenchyms.

Corticiform (a.) Resembling, or having the form of, bark or rind.

Corticine (n.) A material for carpeting or floor covering, made of ground cork and caoutchouc or India rubber.

Corticose (a.) Abounding in bark; resembling bark; barky.

Corticous (a.) Relating to, or resembling, bark; corticose.

Cortile (n.) An open internal courtyard inclosed by the walls of a large dwelling house or other large and stately building.

Corundums (pl. ) of Corundum

Corundum (n.) The earth alumina, as found native in a crystalline state, including sapphire, which is the fine blue variety; the oriental ruby, or red sapphire; the oriental amethyst, or purple sapphire; and adamantine spar, the hair-brown variety. It is the hardest substance found native, next to the diamond.

Coruscant (a.) Glittering in flashes; flashing.

Coruscate (v. i.) To glitter in flashes; to flash.

Coruscation (n.) A sudden flash or play of light.

Coruscation (n.) A flash of intellectual brilliancy.

Corve (n.) See Corf.

Corvee (n.) An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair of roads, for the lord or sovereign.

Corven () p. p. of Carve.

Corvet (n.) Alt. of Corvette

Corvette (n.) A war vessel, ranking next below a frigate, and having usually only one tier of guns; -- called in the United States navy a sloop of war.

Corvetto (n.) A curvet.

Corvine (a.) Of or pertaining to the crow; crowlike.

Corvorant (n.) See Cormorant.

Corybants (pl. ) of Corybant

Corybantes (pl. ) of Corybant

Corybant (n.) One of the priests of Cybele in Phrygia. The rites of the Corybants were accompanied by wild music, dancing, etc.

Corybantiasm (n.) A kind of frenzy in which the patient is tormented by fantastic visions and want of sleep.

Corybantic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Corybantes or their rites; frantic; frenzied; as, a corybantic dance.

Corymb (n.) A flat-topped or convex cluster of flowers, each on its own footstalk, and arising from different points of a common axis, the outermost blossoms expanding first, as in the hawthorn.

Corymb (n.) Any flattish flower cluster, whatever be the order of blooming, or a similar shaped cluster of fruit.

Corymbed (a.) Corymbose.

Corymbiferous (a.) Bearing corymbs of flowers or fruit.

Corymbose (a.) Consisting of corymbs, or resembling them in form.

Corymbosely (adv.) In corymbs.

Coryphaenoid (a.) Belonging to, or like, the genus Coryphaena. See Dolphin.

Coryphee (n.) A ballet dancer.

Coryphene (n.) A fish of the genus Coryphaena. See Dolphin. (2)

Corypheuses (pl. ) of Corypheus

Coryphei (pl. ) of Corypheus

Corypheus (n.) The conductor, chief, or leader of the dramatic chorus; hence, the chief or leader of a party or interest.

Coryphodon (n.) A genus of extinct mammals from the eocene tertiary of Europe and America. Its species varied in size between the tapir and rhinoceros, and were allied to those animals, but had short, plantigrade, five-toed feet, like the elephant.

Coryphodont (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Coryphodon.

Coryza (n.) Nasal catarrh.

Coscinomancy (n.) Divination by means of a suspended sieve.

Coscoroba (n.) A large, white, South American duck, of the genus Cascoroba, resembling a swan.

Cosecant (n.) The secant of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.

Cosen (v. t.) See Cozen.

Cosenage (n.) See Cozenage.

Cosening (n.) Anything done deceitfully, and which could not be properly designated by any special name, whether belonging to contracts or not.

Cosentient (a.) Perceiving together.

Cosey (a.) See Cozy.

Cosher (v. t.) To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat at the expense of. See Coshering.

Cosher (v. t.) To treat with hospitality; to pet.

Cosherer (n.) One who coshers.

Coshering (n.) A feudal prerogative of the lord of the soil entitling him to lodging and food at his tenant's house.

Cosier (n.) A tailor who botches his work.

Cosignificative (a.) Having the same signification.

Cosignitary (a.) Signing some important public document with another or with others; as, a treaty violated by one of the cosignitary powers.

Cosignitaries (pl. ) of Cosignitary

Cosignitary (n.) One who signs a treaty or public document along with others or another; as, the cosignitaries of the treaty of Berlin.

Cosily (adv.) See Cozily.

Cosinage (n.) Collateral relationship or kindred by blood; consanguinity.

Cosinage (n.) A writ to recover possession of an estate in lands, when a stranger has entered, after the death of the grandfather's grandfather, or other distant collateral relation.

Cosine (n.) The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.

Cosmetic (a.) Alt. of Cosmetical

Cosmetical (a.) Imparting or improving beauty, particularly the beauty of the complexion; as, a cosmetical preparation.

Cosmetic (n.) Any external application intended to beautify and improve the complexion.

Cosmic (a.) Alt. of Cosmical

Cosmical (a.) Pertaining to the universe, and having special reference to universal law or order, or to the one grand harmonious system of things; hence; harmonious; orderly.

Cosmical (a.) Pertaining to the solar system as a whole, and not to the earth alone.

Cosmical (a.) Characteristic of the cosmos or universe; inconceivably great; vast; as, cosmic speed.

Cosmical (a.) Rising or setting with the sun; -- the opposite of acronycal.

Cosmically (adv.) With the sun at rising or setting; as, a star is said to rise or set cosmically when it rises or sets with the sun.

Cosmically (adv.) Universally.

Cosmogonal (a.) Alt. of Cosmogonical

Cosmogonic (a.) Alt. of Cosmogonical

Cosmogonical (a.) Belonging to cosmogony.

Cosmogonist (n.) One who treats of the origin of the universe; one versed in cosmogony.

Cosmogonies (pl. ) of Cosmogony

Cosmogony (n.) The creation of the world or universe; a theory or account of such creation; as, the poetical cosmogony of Hesoid; the cosmogonies of Thales, Anaxagoras, and Plato.

Cosmographer (n.) One who describes the world or universe, including the heavens and the earth.

Cosmographic (a.) Alt. of Cosmographical

Cosmographical (a.) Of or pertaining to cosmography.

Cosmographically (adv.) In a cosmographic manner; in accordance with cosmography.

Cosmographies (pl. ) of Cosmography

Cosmography (n.) A description of the world or of the universe; or the science which teaches the constitution of the whole system of worlds, or the figure, disposition, and relation of all its parts.

Cosmolabe (n.) An instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used for measuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called also pantacosm.

Cosmolatry (n.) Worship paid to the world.

Cosmoline (n.) A substance obtained from the residues of the distillation of petroleum, essentially the same as vaseline, but of somewhat stiffer consistency, and consisting of a mixture of the higher paraffines; a kind of petroleum jelly.

Cosmological (a.) Of or pertaining to cosmology.

Cosmologist (n.) One who describes the universe; one skilled in cosmology.

Cosmology (n.) The science of the world or universe; or a treatise relating to the structure and parts of the system of creation, the elements of bodies, the modifications of material things, the laws of motion, and the order and course of nature.

Cosmometry (n.) The art of measuring the world or the universe.

Cosmoplastic (a.) Pertaining to a plastic force as operative in the formation of the world independently of God; world-forming.

Cosmopolitan (n.) Alt. of Cosmopolite

Cosmopolite (n.) One who has no fixed residence, or who is at home in every place; a citizen of the world.

Cosmopolitan (a.) Alt. of Cosmopolite

Cosmopolite (a.) Having no fixed residence; at home in any place; free from local attachments or prejudices; not provincial; liberal.

Cosmopolite (a.) Common everywhere; widely spread; found in all parts of the world.

Cosmopolitanism (n.) The quality of being cosmopolitan; cosmopolitism.

Cosmopolite (a. & n.) See Cosmopolitan.

Cosmopolitical (a.) Having the character of a cosmopolite.

Cosmopolitism (n.) The condition or character of a cosmopolite; disregard of national or local peculiarities and prejudices.

Cosmorama (n.) An exhibition in which a series of views in various parts of the world is seen reflected by mirrors through a series of lenses, with such illumination, etc., as will make the views most closely represent reality.

Cosmoramic (a.) Of or pertaining to a cosmorama.

Cosmos (n.) The universe or universality of created things; -- so called from the order and harmony displayed in it.

Cosmos (n.) The theory or description of the universe, as a system displaying order and harmony.

Cosmosphere (n.) An apparatus for showing the position of the earth, at any given time, with respect to the fixed stars. It consist of a hollow glass globe, on which are depicted the stars and constellations, and within which is a terrestrial globe.

Cosmotheism (n.) Same as Pantheism.

Cosmothetic (a.) Assuming or positing the actual existence or reality of the physical or external world.

Cosovereign (n.) A joint sovereign.

Coss (n.) A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half to two English miles.

Coss (n.) A thing (only in phrase below).

Cossack (n.) One of a warlike, pastoral people, skillful as horsemen, inhabiting different parts of the Russian empire and furnishing valuable contingents of irregular cavalry to its armies, those of Little Russia and those of the Don forming the principal divisions.

Cossas (n.) Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths.

Cosset (n.) A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence: A pet, in general.

Cosset (v. t.) To treat as a pet; to fondle.

Cossic (a.) Alt. of Cossical

Cossical (a.) Of or relating to algebra; as, cossic numbers, or the cossic art.

Cost (n.) A rib; a side; a region or coast.

Cost (n.) See Cottise.

Cost (imp. & p. p.) of Cost

Costing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cost

Cost (v. t.) To require to be given, expended, or laid out therefor, as in barter, purchase, acquisition, etc.; to cause the cost, expenditure, relinquishment, or loss of; as, the ticket cost a dollar; the effort cost his life.

Cost (v. t.) To require to be borne or suffered; to cause.

Cost (v. t.) The amount paid, charged, or engaged to be paid, for anything bought or taken in barter; charge; expense; hence, whatever, as labor, self-denial, suffering, etc., is requisite to secure benefit.

Cost (v. t.) Loss of any kind; detriment; pain; suffering.

Cost (v. t.) Expenses incurred in litigation.

Costa (n.) A rib of an animal or a human being.

Costa (n.) A rib or vein of a leaf, especially the midrib.

Costa (n.) The anterior rib in the wing of an insect.

Costa (n.) One of the riblike longitudinal ridges on the exterior of many corals.

Costage (n.) Expense; cost.

Costal (a.) Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costal nerves.

Costal (a.) Relating to a costa, or rib.

Costal-nerved (a.) Having the nerves spring from the midrib.

Costard (n.) An apple, large and round like the head.

Costard (n.) The head; -- used contemptuously.

Costardmonger (n.) A costermonger.

Costate (a.) Alt. of Costated

Costated (a.) Having ribs, or the appearance of ribs; (Bot.) having one or more longitudinal ribs.

Costean (v. i.) To search after lodes. See Costeaning.

Costeaning (n.) The process by which miners seek to discover metallic lodes. It consist in sinking small pits through the superficial deposits to the solid rock, and then driving from one pit to another across the direction of the vein, in such manner as to cross all the veins between the two pits.

Costellate (a.) Finely ribbed or costated.

Coster (n.) One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc.

Costermonger (n.) An apple seller; a hawker of, or dealer in, any kind of fruit or vegetables; a fruiterer.

Costiferous (a.) Rib-bearing, as the dorsal vertebrae.

Costive (a.) Retaining fecal matter in the bowels; having too slow a motion of the bowels; constipated.

Costive (a.) Reserved; formal; close; cold.

Costive (a.) Dry and hard; impermeable; unyielding.

Costively (adv.) In a costive manner.

Costiveness (n.) An unnatural retention of the fecal matter of the bowels; constipation.

Costiveness (n.) Inability to express one's self; stiffness.

Costless (a.) Costing nothing.

Costlewe (a.) Costly.

Costliness (n.) The quality of being costy; expensiveness; sumptuousness.

Costly (a.) Of great cost; expensive; dear.

Costly (a.) Gorgeous; sumptuous.

Costmary (n.) A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strong balsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy. It is used as a pot herb and salad plant and in flavoring ale and beer. Called also alecost.

Costotome (n.) An instrument (chisel or shears) to cut the ribs and open the thoracic cavity, in post-mortem examinations and dissections.

Costrel (n.) A bottle of leather, earthenware, or wood, having ears by which it was suspended at the side.

Costume (n.) Dress in general; esp., the distinctive style of dress of a people, class, or period.

Costume (n.) Such an arrangement of accessories, as in a picture, statue, poem, or play, as is appropriate to the time, place, or other circumstances represented or described.

Costume (n.) A character dress, used at fancy balls or for dramatic purposes.

Costumer (n.) One who makes or deals in costumes, as for theaters, fancy balls, etc.

Co-sufferer (n.) One who suffers with another.

Cosupreme (n.) A partaker of supremacy; one jointly supreme.

Cosureties (pl. ) of Cosurety

Cosurety (n.) One who is surety with another.

Cosy (a.) See Cozy.

Cot (n.) A small house; a cottage or hut.

Cot (n.) A pen, coop, or like shelter for small domestic animals, as for sheep or pigeons; a cote.

Cot (n.) A cover or sheath; as, a roller cot (the clothing of a drawing roller in a spinning frame); a cot for a sore finger.

Cot (n.) A small, rudely-formed boat.

Cot (n.) A sleeping place of limited size; a little bed; a cradle; a piece of canvas extended by a frame, used as a bed.

Cotangent (n.) The tangent of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.

Cotarnine (n.) A white, crystalline substance, C12H13NO3, obtained as a product of the decomposition of narcotine. It has weak basic properties, and is usually regarded as an alkaloid.

Cote (n.) A cottage or hut.

Cote (n.) A shed, shelter, or inclosure for small domestic animals, as for sheep or doves.

Cote (v. t.) To go side by side with; hence, to pass by; to outrun and get before; as, a dog cotes a hare.

Cote (v. t.) To quote.

Cotemporaneous (a.) Living or being at the same time; contemporaneous.

Cotemporary (a.) Living or being at the same time; contemporary.

Cotemporaries (pl. ) of Cotemporary

Cotemporary (n.) One who lives at the same time with another; a contemporary.

Cotenant (n.) A tenant in common, or a joint tenant.

Coterie (n.) A set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social, literary, or other purposes; a clique.

Coterminous (a.) Bordering; conterminous; -- followed by with.

Cotgare (n.) Refuse wool.

Cothurn (n.) A buskin anciently used by tragic actors on the stage; hence, tragedy in general.

Cothurnate (a.) Alt. of Cothurnated

Cothurnated (a.) Wearing a cothurn.

Cothurnated (a.) Relating to tragedy; solemn; grave.

Cothurnus (n.) Same as Cothurn.

Coticular (a.) Pertaining to whetstones; like or suitable for whetstones.

Cotidal (a.) Marking an equality in the tides; having high tide at the same time.

Cotillon (n.) Alt. of Cotillion

Cotillion (n.) A brisk dance, performed by eight persons; a quadrille.

Cotillion (n.) A tune which regulates the dance.

Cotillion (n.) A kind of woolen material for women's skirts.

Cotillion (n.) A formal ball.

Cotinga (n.) A bird of the family Cotingidae, including numerous bright-colored South American species; -- called also chatterers.

Cotise (n.) See Cottise.

Cotised (a.) See Cottised.

Cotland (n.) Land appendant to a cot or cottage, or held by a cottager or cotter.

Cotquean (n.) A man who busies himself with affairs which properly belong to women.

Cotquean (n.) A she-cuckold; a cucquean; a henhussy.

Cotqueanity (n.) The condition, character, or conduct of a cotquean.

Cotrustee (n.) A joint trustee.

Cotswold (n.) An open country abounding in sheepcotes, as in the Cotswold hills, in Gloucestershire, England.

Cottage (n.) A small house; a cot; a hut.

Cottaged (a.) Set or covered with cottages.

Cottagely (a.) Cottagelike; suitable for a cottage; rustic.

Cottager (n.) One who lives in a cottage.

Cottager (n.) One who lives on the common, without paying any rent, or having land of his own.

Cotter (n.) Alt. of Cottar

Cottar (n.) A cottager; a cottier.

Cotter (n.) A piece of wood or metal, commonly wedge-shaped, used for fastening together parts of a machine or structure. It is driven into an opening through one or all of the parts. [See Illust.] In the United States a cotter is commonly called a key.

Cotter (n.) A toggle.

Cotter (v. t.) To fasten with a cotter.

Cottier (n.) In Great Britain and Ireland, a person who hires a small cottage, with or without a plot of land. Cottiers commonly aid in the work of the landlord's farm.

Cottise (n.) A diminutive of the bendlet, containing one half its area or one quarter the area of the bend. When a single cottise is used alone it is often called a cost. See also Couple-close.

Cottised (a.) Set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between two barrulets, -- said of a bar or fess.

Cottoid (a.) Like a fish of the genus Cottus.

Cottoid (n.) A fish belonging to, or resembling, the genus Cottus. See Sculpin.

Cottolene (n.) A product from cotton-seed, used as lard.

Cotton (n.) A soft, downy substance, resembling fine wool, consisting of the unicellular twisted hairs which grow on the seeds of the cotton plant. Long-staple cotton has a fiber sometimes almost two inches long; short-staple, from two thirds of an inch to an inch and a half.

Cotton (n.) The cotton plant. See Cotten plant, below.

Cotton (n.) Cloth made of cotton.

Cotton (v. i.) To rise with a regular nap, as cloth does.

Cotton (v. i.) To go on prosperously; to succeed.

Cotton (v. i.) To unite; to agree; to make friends; -- usually followed by with.

Cotton (v. i.) To take a liking to; to stick to one as cotton; -- used with to.

Cottonade (n.) A somewhat stout and thick fabric of cotton.

Cottonary (a.) Relating to, or composed of, cotton; cottony.

Cottonous (a.) Resembling cotton.

Cottontail (n.) The American wood rabbit (Lepus sylvaticus); -- also called Molly cottontail.

Cottonweed (n.) See Cudweed.

Cottonwood (n.) An American tree of the genus Populus or poplar, having the seeds covered with abundant cottonlike hairs; esp., the P. monilifera and P. angustifolia of the Western United States.

Cottony (a.) Covered with hairs or pubescence, like cotton; downy; nappy; woolly.

Cottony (a.) Of or pertaining to cotton; resembling cotton in appearance or character; soft, like cotton.

Cottrel (n.) A trammel, or hook to support a pot over a fire.

Cotyla (n.) Alt. of Cotyle

Cotyle (n.) A cuplike cavity or organ. Same as Acetabulum.

Cotyledon (n.) One of the patches of villi found in some forms of placenta.

Cotyledon (n.) A leaf borne by the caulicle or radicle of an embryo; a seed leaf.

Cotyledonal (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cotyledon.

Cotyledonary (a.) Having a cotyledon; tufted; as, the cotyledonary placenta of the cow.

Cotyledonous (a.) Of or pertaining to a cotyledon or cotyledons; having a seed lobe.

Cotyliform (a.) Shaped like a cotyle or a cup.

Cotyligerous (a.) Having cotyles.

Cotyloid (a.) Shaped like a cup; as, the cotyloid cavity, which receives the head of the thigh bone.

Cotyloid (a.) Pertaining to a cotyloid cavity; as, the cotyloid ligament, or notch.

Coucal (n.) A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, of several species.

Couched (imp. & p. p.) of Couch

Couching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Couch

Couch (v. t.) To lay upon a bed or other resting place.

Couch (v. t.) To arrange or dispose as in a bed; -- sometimes followed by the reflexive pronoun.

Couch (v. t.) To lay or deposit in a bed or layer; to bed.

Couch (v. t.) To transfer (as sheets of partly dried pulp) from the wire cloth mold to a felt blanket, for further drying.

Couch (v. t.) To conceal; to include or involve darkly.

Couch (v. t.) To arrange; to place; to inlay.

Couch (v. t.) To put into some form of language; to express; to phrase; -- used with in and under.

Couch (v. t.) To treat by pushing down or displacing the opaque lens with a needle; as, to couch a cataract.

Couch (v. i.) To lie down or recline, as on a bed or other place of rest; to repose; to lie.

Couch (v. i.) To lie down for concealment; to hide; to be concealed; to be included or involved darkly.

Couch (v. i.) To bend the body, as in reverence, pain, labor, etc.; to stoop; to crouch.

Couch (v. t.) A bed or place for repose or sleep; particularly, in the United States, a lounge.

Couch (v. t.) Any place for repose, as the lair of a beast, etc.

Couch (v. t.) A mass of steeped barley spread upon a floor to germinate, in malting; or the floor occupied by the barley; as, couch of malt.

Couch (v. t.) A preliminary layer, as of color, size, etc.

Couchancy (n.) State of lying down for repose.

Couchant (v. t.) Lying down with head erect; squatting.

Couchant (v. t.) Lying down with the head raised, which distinguishes the posture of couchant from that of dormant, or sleeping; -- said of a lion or other beast.

Couche (v. t.) Not erect; inclined; -- said of anything that is usually erect, as an escutcheon.

Couche (v. t.) Lying on its side; thus, a chevron couche is one which emerges from one side of the escutcheon and has its apex on the opposite side, or at the fess point.

Couched (a.) Same as Couch/.

Couchee (v. t.) A reception held at the time of going to bed, as by a sovereign or great prince.

Coucher (n.) One who couches.

Coucher (n.) One who couches paper.

Coucher (n.) A factor or agent resident in a country for traffic.

Coucher (n.) The book in which a corporation or other body registers its particular acts.

Couch grass () See Quitch grass.

Couching (n.) The operation of putting down or displacing the opaque lens in cataract.

Couching (n.) Embroidering by laying the materials upon the surface of the foundation, instead of drawing them through.

Couchless (a.) Having no couch or bed.

Coudee (n.) A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end of the middle finger; a cubit.

Cougar (n.) An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor), resembling the African panther in size and habits. Its color is tawny, without spots; hence writers often called it the American lion. Called also puma, panther, mountain lion, and catamount. See Puma.

Coughed (imp. & p. p.) of Cough

Coughing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cough

Cough (v. i.) To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from the lungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner.

Cough (v. t.) To expel from the lungs or air passages by coughing; -- followed by up; as, to cough up phlegm.

Cough (v. t.) To bring to a specified state by coughing; as, he coughed himself hoarse.

Cough (v. i.) A sudden, noisy, and violent expulsion of air from the chest, caused by irritation in the air passages, or by the reflex action of nervous or gastric disorder, etc.

Cough (v. i.) The more or less frequent repetition of coughing, constituting a symptom of disease.

Cougher (n.) One who coughs.

Couhage (n.) See Cowhage.

Could (imp.) Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible. Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditional present.

Coulee (n.) A stream

Coulee (n.) a stream of lava. Also, in the Western United States, the bed of a stream, even if dry, when deep and having inclined sides; distinguished from a caon, which has precipitous sides.

Coulisse (n.) A piece of timber having a groove in which something glides.

Coulisse (n.) One of the side scenes of the stage in a theater, or the space included between the side scenes.

Couloir (n.) A deep gorge; a gully.

Couloir (n.) A dredging machine for excavating canals, etc.

Coulomb (n.) The standard unit of quantity in electrical measurements. It is the quantity of electricity conveyed in one second by the current produced by an electro-motive force of one volt acting in a circuit having a resistance of one ohm, or the quantity transferred by one ampere in one second. Formerly called weber.

Coulter (n.) Same as Colter.

Coulterneb (n.) The puffin.

Coumaric (a.) Relating to, derived from, or like, the Dipterix odorata, a tree of Guiana.

Coumarin (n.) The concrete essence of the tonka bean, the fruit of Dipterix (formerly Coumarouna) odorata and consisting essentially of coumarin proper, which is a white crystalline substance, C9H6O2, of vanilla-like odor, regarded as an anhydride of coumaric acid, and used in flavoring. Coumarin in also made artificially.

Council (n.) An assembly of men summoned or convened for consultation, deliberation, or advice; as, a council of physicians for consultation in a critical case.

Council (n.) A body of man elected or appointed to constitute an advisory or a legislative assembly; as, a governor's council; a city council.

Council (n.) Act of deliberating; deliberation; consultation.

Councilist (n.) One who belong to a council; one who gives an opinion.

Councilmen (pl. ) of Councilman

Councilman (n.) A member of a council, especially of the common council of a city; a councilor.

Councilor (n.) A member of a council.

Co-une (v. t.) To combine or unite.

Co-unite (v. t.) To unite.

Co-unite (a.) United closely with another.

Counsel (n.) Interchange of opinions; mutual advising; consultation.

Counsel (n.) Examination of consequences; exercise of deliberate judgment; prudence.

Counsel (n.) Result of consultation; advice; instruction.

Counsel (n.) Deliberate purpose; design; intent; scheme; plan.

Counsel (n.) A secret opinion or purpose; a private matter.

Counsel (n.) One who gives advice, especially in legal matters; one professionally engaged in the trial or management of a cause in court; also, collectively, the legal advocates united in the management of a case; as, the defendant has able counsel.

Counseled (imp. & p. p.) of Counsel

Counselled () of Counsel

Counseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counsel

Counselling () of Counsel

Counsel (v. t.) To give advice to; to advice, admonish, or instruct, as a person.

Counsel (v. t.) To advise or recommend, as an act or course.

Counselable (a.) Willing to receive counsel or follow advice.

Counselable (a.) Suitable to be advised; advisable, wise.

Counselor (n.) One who counsels; an adviser.

Counselor (n.) A member of council; one appointed to advise a sovereign or chief magistrate. [See under Consilor.]

Counselor (n.) One whose profession is to give advice in law, and manage causes for clients in court; a barrister.

Counselorship (n.) The function and rank or office of a counselor.

Counted (imp. & p. p.) of Count

Counting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Count

Count (v. t.) To tell or name one by one, or by groups, for the purpose of ascertaining the whole number of units in a collection; to number; to enumerate; to compute; to reckon.

Count (v. t.) To place to an account; to ascribe or impute; to consider or esteem as belonging.

Count (v. t.) To esteem; to account; to reckon; to think, judge, or consider.

Count (v. i.) To number or be counted; to possess value or carry weight; hence, to increase or add to the strength or influence of some party or interest; as, every vote counts; accidents count for nothing.

Count (v. i.) To reckon; to rely; to depend; -- with on or upon.

Count (v. i.) To take account or note; -- with

Count (v. i.) To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count.

Count (v. t.) The act of numbering; reckoning; also, the number ascertained by counting.

Count (v. t.) An object of interest or account; value; estimation.

Count (v. t.) A formal statement of the plaintiff's case in court; in a more technical and correct sense, a particular allegation or charge in a declaration or indictment, separately setting forth the cause of action or prosecution.

Count (n.) A nobleman on the continent of Europe, equal in rank to an English earl.

Countable (a.) Capable of being numbered.

Counttenance (n.) Appearance or expression of the face; look; aspect; mien.

Counttenance (n.) The face; the features.

Counttenance (n.) Approving or encouraging aspect of face; hence, favor, good will, support; aid; encouragement.

Counttenance (n.) Superficial appearance; show; pretense.

Countenanced (imp. & p. p.) of Countenance

Countenancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countenance

Countenance (v. t.) To encourage; to favor; to approve; to aid; to abet.

Countenance (v. t.) To make a show of; to pretend.

Countenancer (n.) One who countenances, favors, or supports.

Counter (adv.) A prefix meaning contrary, opposite, in opposition; as, counteract, counterbalance, countercheck. See Counter, adv. & a.

Counter (v. t.) One who counts, or reckons up; a calculator; a reckoner.

Counter (v. t.) A piece of metal, ivory, wood, or bone, used in reckoning, in keeping account of games, etc.

Counter (v. t.) Money; coin; -- used in contempt.

Counter (v. t.) A prison; either of two prisons formerly in London.

Counter (v. t.) A telltale; a contrivance attached to an engine, printing press, or other machine, for the purpose of counting the revolutions or the pulsations.

Counter (v. t.) A table or board on which money is counted and over which business is transacted; a long, narrow table or bench, on which goods are laid for examination by purchasers, or on which they are weighed or measured.

Counter (adv.) Contrary; in opposition; in an opposite direction; contrariwise; -- used chiefly with run or go.

Counter (adv.) In the wrong way; contrary to the right course; as, a hound that runs counter.

Counter (adv.) At or against the front or face.

Counter (a.) Contrary; opposite; contrasted; opposed; adverse; antagonistic; as, a counter current; a counter revolution; a counter poison; a counter agent; counter fugue.

Counter (adv.) The after part of a vessel's body, from the water line to the stern, -- below and somewhat forward of the stern proper.

Counter (adv.) Same as Contra. Formerly used to designate any under part which served for contrast to a principal part, but now used as equivalent to counter tenor.

Counter (adv.) The breast, or that part of a horse between the shoulders and under the neck.

Counter (adv.) The back leather or heel part of a boot.

Counter (n.) An encounter.

Counter (v. i.) To return a blow while receiving one, as in boxing.

Counteracted (imp. & p. p.) of Counteract

Counteracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counteract

Counteract (v. t.) To act in opposition to; to hinder, defeat, or frustrate, by contrary agency or influence; as, to counteract the effect of medicines; to counteract good advice.

Counteraction (n.) Action in opposition; hindrance resistance.

Counteractive (a.) Tending to counteract.

Counteractive (n.) One who, or that which, counteracts.

Counteractibely (adv.) By counteraction.

Counterbalanced (imp. & p. p.) of Counterbalance

Counterbalancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterbalance

Counterbalance (v. t.) To oppose with an equal weight or power; to counteract the power or effect of; to countervail; to equiponderate; to balance.

Counterbalance (n.) A weight, power, or agency, acting against or balancing another

Counterbalance (n.) A mass of metal in one side of a driving wheel or fly wheel, to balance the weight of a crank pin, etc., on the opposite side of the wheel

Counterbalance (n.) A counterpoise to balance the weight of anything, as of a drawbridge or a scale beam.

Counterbore (n.) A flat-bottomed cylindrical enlargement of the mouth of a hole, usually of slight depth, as for receiving a cylindrical screw head.

Counterbore (n.) A kind of pin drill with the cutting edge or edges normal to the axis; -- used for enlarging a hole, or for forming a flat-bottomed recess at its mouth.

Counterbore (v. t.) To form a counterbore in, by boring, turning, or drilling; to enlarge, as a hole, by means of a counterbore.

Counter brace () The brace of the fore-topsail on the leeward side of a vessel.

Counter brace () A brace, in a framed structure, which resists a strain of a character opposite to that which a main brace is designed to receive.

Counterbrace (v. t.) To brace in opposite directions; as, to counterbrace the yards, i. e., to brace the head yards one way and the after yards another.

Counterbrace (v. t.) To brace in such a way that opposite strains are resisted; to apply counter braces to.

Counterbuff (v. t.) To strike or drive back or in an opposite direction; to stop by a blow or impulse in front.

Counterbuff (n.) A blow in an opposite direction; a stroke that stops motion or cause a recoil.

Countercast (n.) A trick; a delusive contrivance.

Countercaster (n.) A caster of accounts; a reckoner; a bookkeeper; -- used contemptuously.

Counterchanged (imp. & p. p.) of Counterchange

Counterchanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterchange

Counterchange (v. t.) To give and receive; to cause to change places; to exchange.

Counterchange (v. t.) To checker; to diversify, as in heraldic counterchanging. See Counterchaged, a., 2.

Counterchange (n.) Exchange; reciprocation.

Counterchanged (a.) Exchanged.

Counterchanged (a.) Having the tinctures exchanged mutually; thus, if the field is divided palewise, or and azure, and cross is borne counterchanged, that part of the cross which comes on the azure side will be or, and that on the or side will be azure.

Countercharge (n.) An opposing charge.

Countercharmed (imp. & p. p.) of Countercharm

Countercharming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countercharm

Countercharm (v. t.) To destroy the effect of a charm upon.

Countercharm (n.) That which has the power of destroying the effect of a charm.

Counterchecked (imp. & p. p.) of Countercheck

Counterchecking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countercheck

Countercheck (v. t.) To oppose or check by some obstacle; to check by a return check.

Countercheck (n.) A check; a stop; a rebuke, or censure to check a reprover.

Countercheck (n.) Any force or device designed to restrain another restraining force; a check upon a check.

Counterclaim (n.) A claim made by a person as an offset to a claim made on him.

Counter-compony (a.) See Compony.

Counter-couchant (a.) Lying down, with their heads in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a coat of arms.

Counter-courant (a.) Running in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a coast of arms.

Countercurrent (a.) Running in an opposite direction.

Countercurrent (n.) A current running in an opposite direction to the main current.

Counterdrew (imp.) of Counterdraw

Counterdrawn (p. p.) of Counterdraw

Counterdrawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterdraw

Counterdraw (v. t.) To copy, as a design or painting, by tracing with a pencil on oiled paper, or other transparent substance.

Counterfaisance (n.) See Counterfesance.

Counterfeit (adv.) Representing by imitation or likeness; having a resemblance to something else; portrayed.

Counterfeit (adv.) Fabricated in imitation of something else, with a view to defraud by passing the false copy for genuine or original; as, counterfeit antiques; counterfeit coin.

Counterfeit (adv.) Assuming the appearance of something; false; spurious; deceitful; hypocritical; as, a counterfeit philanthropist.

Counterfeit (n.) That which resembles or is like another thing; a likeness; a portrait; a counterpart.

Counterfeit (n.) That which is made in imitation of something, with a view to deceive by passing the false for the true; as, the bank note was a counterfeit.

Counterfeit (n.) One who pretends to be what he is not; one who personates another; an impostor; a cheat.

Counterfeited (imp. & p. p.) of Counterfeit

Counterfeiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterfeit

Counterfeit (v. t.) To imitate, or put on a semblance of; to mimic; as, to counterfeit the voice of another person.

Counterfeit (v. t.) To imitate with a view to deceiving, by passing the copy for that which is original or genuine; to forge; as, to counterfeit the signature of another, coins, notes, etc.

Counterfeit (v. i.) To carry on a deception; to dissemble; to feign; to pretend.

Counterfeit (v. i.) To make counterfeits.

Counterfeiter (n.) One who counterfeits; one who copies or imitates; especially, one who copies or forges bank notes or coin; a forger.

Counterfeiter (n.) One who assumes a false appearance or semblance; one who makes false pretenses.

Counterfeitly (adv.) By forgery; falsely.

Counterfesance (a.) The act of forging; forgery.

Counterfleury (a.) Counterflory.

Counterflory (a.) Adorned with flowers (usually fleurs-de-lis) so divided that the tops appear on one side and the bottoms on the others; -- said of any ordinary.

Counterfoil (n.) That part of a tally, formerly in the exchequer, which was kept by an officer in that court, the other, called the stock, being delivered to the person who had lent the king money on the account; -- called also counterstock.

Counterfoil (n.) The part of a writing (as the stub of a bank check) in which are noted the main particulars contained in the corresponding part, which has been issued.

Counterforce (n.) An opposing force.

Counterfort (n.) A kind of buttress of masonry to strengthen a revetment wall.

Counterfort (n.) A spur or projection of a mountain.

Countergage (n.) An adjustable gage, with double points for transferring measurements from one timber to another, as the breadth of a mortise to the place where the tenon is to be made.

Counterguard (n.) A low outwork before a bastion or ravelin, consisting of two lines of rampart parallel to the faces of the bastion, and protecting them from a breaching fire.

Counterirritant (n.) Alt. of Counterirritation

Counterirritation (n.) See Counter irritant, etc., under Counter, a.

Counterirritate (v. t.) To produce counter irritation in; to treat with one morbid process for the purpose of curing another.

Counterjumper (n.) A salesman in a shop; a shopman; -- used contemptuously.

Countermen (pl. ) of Counterman

Counterman (n.) A man who attends at the counter of a shop to sell goods.

Countermanded (imp. & p. p.) of Countermand

Countermanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countermand

Countermand (v. t.) To revoke (a former command); to cancel or rescind by giving an order contrary to one previously given; as, to countermand an order for goods.

Countermand (v. t.) To prohibit; to forbid.

Countermand (v. t.) To oppose; to revoke the command of.

Countermand (n.) A contrary order; revocation of a former order or command.

Countermandable (a.) Capable of being countermanded; revocable.

Countermarched (imp. & p. p.) of Countermarch

Countermarching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countermarch

Countermarch (v. i.) To march back, or to march in reversed order.

Countermarch (n.) A marching back; retrocession.

Countermarch (n.) An evolution by which a body of troops change front or reverse the direction of march while retaining the same men in the front rank; also, a movement by which the rear rank becomes the front one, either with or without changing the right to the left.

Countermarch (n.) A change of measures; alteration of conduct.

Countermark (n.) A mark or token added to those already existing, in order to afford security or proof; as, an additional or special mark put upon a package of goods belonging to several persons, that it may not be opened except in the presence of all; a mark added to that of an artificer of gold or silver work by the Goldsmiths' Company of London, to attest the standard quality of the gold or silver; a mark added to an ancient coin or medal, to show either its change of value or that it was taken from an enemy.

Countermark (n.) An artificial cavity made in the teeth of horses that have outgrown their natural mark, to disguise their age.

Countermark (v. t.) To apply a countermark to; as, to countermark silverware; to countermark a horse's teeth.

Countermine (n.) An underground gallery excavated to intercept and destroy the mining of an enemy.

Countermine (n.) A stratagem or plot by which another sratagem or project is defeated.

Countermined (imp. & p. p.) of Countermine

Countermining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countermine

Countermine (v. t.) To oppose by means of a countermine; to intercept with a countermine.

Countermine (v. t.) To frustrate or counteract by secret measures.

Countermine (v. i.) To make a countermine or counterplot; to plot secretly.

Countermove (v. t. & i.) To move in a contrary direction to.

Countermove () Alt. of Countermovement

Countermovement () A movement in opposition to another.

Countermure (n.) A wall raised behind another, to supply its place when breached or destroyed. [R.] Cf. Contramure.

Countermured (imp. & p. p.) of Countermure

Countermuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countermure

Countermure (v. t.) To fortify with a wall behind another wall.

Counternatural (a.) Contrary to nature.

Counter-paly (a.) Paly, and then divided fesswise, so that each vertical piece is cut into two, having the colors used alternately or counterchanged. Thus the escutcheon in the illustration may also be blazoned paly of six per fess counterchanged argent and azure.

Counterpane (n.) A coverlet for a bed, -- originally stitched or woven in squares or figures.

Counterpane (n.) A duplicate part or copy of an indenture, deed, etc., corresponding with the original; -- now called counterpart.

Counterpart (n.) A part corresponding to another part; anything which answers, or corresponds, to another; a copy; a duplicate; a facsimile.

Counterpart (n.) One of two corresponding copies of an instrument; a duplicate.

Counterpart (n.) A person who closely resembles another.

Counterpart (n.) A thing may be applied to another thing so as to fit perfectly, as a seal to its impression; hence, a thing which is adapted to another thing, or which supplements it; that which serves to complete or complement anything; hence, a person or thing having qualities lacking in another; an opposite.

Counterpassant (a.) Passant in opposite directions; -- said of two animals.

Counterplead (v. t.) To plead the contrary of; to plead against; to deny.

Counterplotted (imp. & p. p.) of Counterplot

Counterplotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterplot

Counterplot (v. t.) To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt to frustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem.

Counterplot (n.) A plot or artifice opposed to another.

Counterpoint (n.) An opposite point

Counterpoint (n.) The setting of note against note in harmony; the adding of one or more parts to a given canto fermo or melody

Counterpoint (n.) The art of polyphony, or composite melody, i. e., melody not single, but moving attended by one or more related melodies.

Counterpoint (n.) Music in parts; part writing; harmony; polyphonic music. See Polyphony.

Counterpoint (n.) A coverlet; a cover for a bed, often stitched or broken into squares; a counterpane. See 1st Counterpane.

Counterpoised (imp. & p. p.) of Counterpoise

Counterpoising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterpoise

Counterpoise (v. t.) To act against with equal weight; to equal in weight; to balance the weight of; to counterbalance.

Counterpoise (v. t.) To act against with equal power; to balance.

Counterpoise (n.) A weight sufficient to balance another, as in the opposite scale of a balance; an equal weight.

Counterpoise (n.) An equal power or force acting in opposition; a force sufficient to balance another force.

Counterpoise (n.) The relation of two weights or forces which balance each other; equilibrium; equiponderance.

Counterpole (n.) The exact opposite.

Counterponderate (v. t.) To equal in weight; to counterpoise; to equiponderate.

Counterproved (imp. & p. p.) of Counterprove

Counterproving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterprove

Counterprove (v. t.) To take a counter proof of, or a copy in reverse, by taking an impression directly from the face of an original. See Counter proof, under Counter.

Counter-roll (n.) A duplicate roll (record or account) kept by an officer as a check upon another officer's roll.

Counterrolment (n.) A counter account. See Control.

Counter-salient (a.) Leaping from each other; -- said of two figures on a coast of arms.

Counterscale (n.) Counterbalance; balance, as of one scale against another.

Counterscarf (n.) The exterior slope or wall of the ditch; -- sometimes, the whole covered way, beyond the ditch, with its parapet and glacis; as, the enemy have lodged themselves on the counterscarp.

Countersealed (imp. & p. p.) of Counterseal

Countersealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterseal

Counterseal (v. t.) To seal or ratify with another or others.

Countersecure (v. t.) To give additional security to or for.

Countershaft (n.) An intermediate shaft; esp., one which receives motion from a line shaft in a factory and transmits it to a machine.

Countersigned (imp. & p. p.) of Countersign

Countersigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countersign

Countersign (v. t.) To sign on the opposite side of (an instrument or writing); hence, to sign in addition to the signature of a principal or superior, in order to attest the authenticity of a writing.

Countersign (a.) The signature of a secretary or other officer to a writing signed by a principal or superior, to attest its authenticity.

Countersign (a.) A private signal, word, or phrase, which must be given in order to pass a sentry; a watchword.

Countersunk (imp. & p. p.) of Countersink

Countersinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countersink

Countersink (v. t.) To chamfer or form a depression around the top of (a hole in wood, metal, etc.) for the reception of the head of a screw or bolt below the surface, either wholly or in part; as, to countersink a hole for a screw.

Countersink (v. t.) To cause to sink even with or below the surface; as, to countersink a screw or bolt into woodwork.

Countersink (n.) An enlargement of the upper part of a hole, forming a cavity or depression for receiving the head of a screw or bolt.

Countersink (n.) A drill or cutting tool for countersinking holes.

Counterstand (n.) Resistance; opposition; a stand against.

Counterstep (n.) A contrary method of procedure; opposite course of action.

Counterstock (n.) See Counterfoil.

Counterstroke (n.) A stroke or blow in return.

Countersunk (p. p. & a.) Chamfered at the top; -- said of a hole.

Countersunk (p. p. & a.) Sunk into a chamfer; as, a countersunk bolt.

Countersunk (p. p. & a.) Beveled on the lower side, so as to fit a chamfered countersink; as, a countersunk nailhead.

Countersway (n.) A swaying in a contrary direction; an opposing influence.

Counter tenor () One of the middle parts in music, between the tenor and the treble; high tenor.

Counterterm (n.) A term or word which is the opposite of, or antithesis to, another; an antonym; -- the opposite of synonym; as, foe is the counterterm of friend.

Countertime (n.) The resistance of a horse, that interrupts his cadence and the measure of his manege, occasioned by a bad horseman, or the bad temper of the horse.

Countertime (n.) Resistance; opposition.

Countertrippant (a.) Trippant in opposite directions. See Trippant.

Countertripping (a.) Same as Countertrippant.

Counterturn (n.) The critical moment in a play, when, contrary to expectation, the action is embroiled in new difficulties.

Countervailed (imp. & p. p.) of Countervail

Countervailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countervail

Countervail (v. t.) To act against with equal force, power, or effect; to thwart or overcome by such action; to furnish an equivalent to or for; to counterbalance; to compensate.

Countervail (n.) Power or value sufficient to obviate any effect; equal weight, strength, or value; equivalent; compensation; requital.

Countervallation (n.) See Contravallation.

Counterview (n.) An opposite or opposing view; opposition; a posture in which two persons front each other.

Counterview (n.) A position in which two dissimilar things illustrate each other by opposition; contrast.

Countervote (v. t.) To vote in opposition to; to balance or overcome by voting; to outvote.

Counterwait (v. t.) To wait or watch for; to be on guard against.

Counterweigh (v. t.) To weigh against; to counterbalance.

Counter weight (n.) A counterpoise.

Counterwheel (v. t.) To cause to wheel or turn in an opposite direction.

Counterwork (v. t.) To work in opposition to; to counteract.

Countesses (pl. ) of Countess

Countess (n.) The wife of an earl in the British peerage, or of a count in the Continental nobility; also, a lady possessed of the same dignity in her own right. See the Note under Count.

Countinghouse (v.) Alt. of Countingroom

Countingroom (v.) The house or room in which a merchant, trader, or manufacturer keeps his books and transacts business.

Countless (a.) Incapable of being counted; not ascertainable; innumerable.

Countor (v. t.) An advocate or professional pleader; one who counted for his client, that is, orally pleaded his cause.

Countour (n.) Alt. of Countourhouse

Countourhouse (n.) A merchant's office; a countinghouse.

Countre- () Same as prefix Counter-.

Countreplete (v. t.) To counterplead.

Countretaille (n.) A counter tally; correspondence (in sound).

Countrified (p. a.) Having the appearance and manners of a rustic; rude.

Countrify (v. t.) To give a rural appearance to; to cause to appear rustic.

Countries (pl. ) of Country

Country (adv.) A tract of land; a region; the territory of an independent nation; (as distinguished from any other region, and with a personal pronoun) the region of one's birth, permanent residence, or citizenship.

Country (adv.) Rural regions, as opposed to a city or town.

Country (adv.) The inhabitants or people of a state or a region; the populace; the public. Hence: (a) One's constituents. (b) The whole body of the electors of state; as, to dissolve Parliament and appeal to the country.

Country (adv.) A jury, as representing the citizens of a country.

Country (adv.) The inhabitants of the district from which a jury is drawn.

Country (adv.) The rock through which a vein runs.

Country (a.) Pertaining to the regions remote from a city; rural; rustic; as, a country life; a country town; the country party, as opposed to city.

Country (a.) Destitute of refinement; rude; unpolished; rustic; not urbane; as, country manners.

Country (a.) Pertaining, or peculiar, to one's own country.

Country-base (n.) Same as Prison base.

Country-dance (n.) See Contradance.

Countrymen (pl. ) of Countryman

Countryman (n.) An inhabitant or native of a region.

Countryman (n.) One born in the same country with another; a compatriot; -- used with a possessive pronoun.

Countryman (n.) One who dwells in the country, as distinguished from a townsman or an inhabitant of a city; a rustic; a husbandman or farmer.

Country seat () A dwelling in the country, used as a place of retirement from the city.

Countryside (n.) A particular rural district; a country neighborhood.

Countrywomen (pl. ) of Countrywoman

Countrywoman (n.) A woman born, or dwelling, in the country, as opposed to the city; a woman born or dwelling in the same country with another native or inhabitant.

Count-wheel (n.) The wheel in a clock which regulates the number of strokes.

Counties (pl. ) of County

County (n.) An earldom; the domain of a count or earl.

County (n.) A circuit or particular portion of a state or kingdom, separated from the rest of the territory, for certain purposes in the administration of justice and public affairs; -- called also a shire. See Shire.

County (n.) A count; an earl or lord.

Coup (n.) A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a term used in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force.

Coupable (a.) Culpable.

Coupe (n.) The front compartment of a French diligence; also, the front compartment (usually for three persons) of a car or carriage on British railways.

Coupe (n.) A four-wheeled close carriage for two persons inside, with an outside seat for the driver; -- so called because giving the appearance of a larger carriage cut off.

Couped (a.) Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- used especially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased.

Coupee (n.) A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raised from the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made.

Coupe-gorge (n.) Any position giving the enemy such advantage that the troops occupying it must either surrender or be cut to pieces.

Couple (a.) That which joins or links two things together; a bond or tie; a coupler.

Couple (a.) Two of the same kind connected or considered together; a pair; a brace.

Couple (a.) A male and female associated together; esp., a man and woman who are married or betrothed.

Couple (a.) See Couple-close.

Couple (a.) One of the pairs of plates of two metals which compose a voltaic battery; -- called a voltaic couple or galvanic couple.

Couple (a.) Two rotations, movements, etc., which are equal in amount but opposite in direction, and acting along parallel lines or around parallel axes.

Coupled (imp. & p. p.) of Couple

Coupling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Couple

Couple (v.) To link or tie, as one thing to another; to connect or fasten together; to join.

Couple (v.) To join in wedlock; to marry.

Couple (v. i.) To come together as male and female; to copulate.

Couple-beggar (n.) One who makes it his business to marry beggars to each other.

Couple-closes (pl. ) of Couple-close

Couple-close (n.) A diminutive of the chevron, containing one fourth of its surface. Couple-closes are generally borne one on each side of a chevron, and the blazoning may then be either a chevron between two couple-closes or chevron cottised.

Couple-close (n.) A pair of rafters framed together with a tie fixed at their feet, or with a collar beam.

Couplement (n.) Union; combination; a coupling; a pair.

Coupler (n.) One who couples; that which couples, as a link, ring, or shackle, to connect cars.

Couplet (n.) Two taken together; a pair or couple; especially two lines of verse that rhyme with each other.

Coupling (n.) The act of bringing or coming together; connection; sexual union.

Coupling (n.) A device or contrivance which serves to couple or connect adjacent parts or objects; as, a belt coupling, which connects the ends of a belt; a car coupling, which connects the cars in a train; a shaft coupling, which connects the ends of shafts.

Coupon (n.) A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom of transferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term of years, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when the interest is due; an interest warrant.

Coupon (n.) A section of a ticket, showing the holder to be entitled to some specified accomodation or service, as to a passage over a designated line of travel, a particular seat in a theater, or the like.

Coupure (n.) A passage cut through the glacis to facilitate sallies by the besieged.

Courage (n.) The heart; spirit; temper; disposition.

Courage (n.) Heart; inclination; desire; will.

Courage (n.) That quality of mind which enables one to encounter danger and difficulties with firmness, or without fear, or fainting of heart; valor; boldness; resolution.

Couage (v. t.) To inspire with courage.

Courageous (a.) Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold.

Courageously (adv.) In a courageous manner.

Courageousness (n.) The quality of being courageous; courage.

Courant (a.) Represented as running; -- said of a beast borne in a coat of arms.

Courant (p. pr.) A piece of music in triple time; also, a lively dance; a coranto.

Courant (p. pr.) A circulating gazette of news; a newspaper.

Couranto (n.) A sprightly dance; a coranto; a courant.

Courap (n.) A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetual itching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face.

Courb (a.) Curved; rounded.

Courb (v. i.) To bend; to stop; to bow.

Courbaril (n.) See Anime, n.

Courche (n.) A square piece of linen used formerly by women instead of a cap; a kerchief.

Courier (n.) A messenger sent with haste to convey letters or dispatches, usually on public business.

Courier (n.) An attendant on travelers, whose business it is to make arrangements for their convenience at hotels and on the way.

Courlan (n.) A South American bird, of the genus Aramus, allied to the rails.

Course (n.) The act of moving from one point to another; progress; passage.

Course (n.) The ground or path traversed; track; way.

Course (n.) Motion, considered as to its general or resultant direction or to its goal; line progress or advance.

Course (n.) Progress from point to point without change of direction; any part of a progress from one place to another, which is in a straight line, or on one direction; as, a ship in a long voyage makes many courses; a course measured by a surveyor between two stations; also, a progress without interruption or rest; a heat; as, one course of a race.

Course (n.) Motion considered with reference to manner; or derly progress; procedure in a certain line of thought or action; as, the course of an argument.

Course (n.) Customary or established sequence of events; recurrence of events according to natural laws.

Course (n.) Method of procedure; manner or way of conducting; conduct; behavior.

Course (n.) A series of motions or acts arranged in order; a succession of acts or practices connectedly followed; as, a course of medicine; a course of lectures on chemistry.

Course (n.) The succession of one to another in office or duty; order; turn.

Course (n.) That part of a meal served at one time, with its accompaniments.

Course (n.) A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same height throughout the face or faces of a building.

Course (n.) The lowest sail on any mast of a square-rigged vessel; as, the fore course, main course, etc.

Course (n.) The menses.

Coursed (imp. & p. p.) of Course

Coursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Course

Course (v. t.) To run, hunt, or chase after; to follow hard upon; to pursue.

Course (v. t.) To cause to chase after or pursue game; as, to course greyhounds after deer.

Course (v. t.) To run through or over.

Course (v. i.) To run as in a race, or in hunting; to pursue the sport of coursing; as, the sportsmen coursed over the flats of Lancashire.

Course (v. i.) To move with speed; to race; as, the blood courses through the veins.

Coursed (a.) Hunted; as, a coursed hare.

Coursed (a.) Arranged in courses; as, coursed masonry.

Courser (n.) One who courses or hunts.

Courser (n.) A swift or spirited horse; a racer or a war horse; a charger.

Courser (n.) A grallatorial bird of Europe (Cursorius cursor), remarkable for its speed in running. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied to running birds of the Ostrich family.

Coursey (n.) A space in the galley; a part of the hatches.

Coursing (n.) The pursuit or running game with dogs that follow by sight instead of by scent.

Court (n.) An inclosed space; a courtyard; an uncovered area shut in by the walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley.

Court (n.) The residence of a sovereign, prince, nobleman, or ether dignitary; a palace.

Court (n.) The collective body of persons composing the retinue of a sovereign or person high in authority; all the surroundings of a sovereign in his regal state.

Court (n.) Any formal assembling of the retinue of a sovereign; as, to hold a court.

Court (n.) Attention directed to a person in power; conduct or address designed to gain favor; courtliness of manners; civility; compliment; flattery.

Court (n.) The hall, chamber, or place, where justice is administered.

Court (n.) The persons officially assembled under authority of law, at the appropriate time and place, for the administration of justice; an official assembly, legally met together for the transaction of judicial business; a judge or judges sitting for the hearing or trial of causes.

Court (n.) A tribunal established for the administration of justice.

Court (n.) The judge or judges; as distinguished from the counsel or jury, or both.

Court (n.) The session of a judicial assembly.

Court (n.) Any jurisdiction, civil, military, or ecclesiastical.

Court (n.) A place arranged for playing the game of tennis; also, one of the divisions of a tennis court.

Courted (imp. & p. p.) of Court

Courting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Court

Court (v. t.) To endeavor to gain the favor of by attention or flattery; to try to ingratiate one's self with.

Court (v. t.) To endeavor to gain the affections of; to seek in marriage; to woo.

Court (v. t.) To attempt to gain; to solicit; to seek.

Court (v. t.) To invite by attractions; to allure; to attract.

Court (v. i.) To play the lover; to woo; as, to go courting.

Court-baron (n.) An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor, and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse.

Courtbred (a.) Bred, or educated, at court; polished; courtly.

Court-craft (n.) The artifices, intrigues, and plottings, at courts.

Court-cupboard (n.) A movable sideboard or buffet, on which plate and other articles of luxury were displayed on special ocasions.

Courteous (a.) Of courtlike manners; pertaining to, or expressive of, courtesy; characterized by courtesy; civil; obliging; well bred; polite; affable; complaisant.

Courteously (adv.) In a courteous manner.

Courteousness (n.) The quality of being courteous; politeness; courtesy.

Courtepy (n.) A short coat of coarse cloth.

Courter (n.) One who courts; one who plays the lover, or who solicits in marriage; one who flatters and cajoles.

Courtesan (n.) A woman who prostitutes herself for hire; a prostitute; a harlot.

Courtesanship (n.) Harlotry.

Courtesies (pl. ) of Courtesy

Courtesy (n.) Politeness; civility; urbanity; courtliness.

Courtesy (n.) An act of civility or respect; an act of kindness or favor performed with politeness.

Courtesy (n.) Favor or indulgence, as distinguished from right; as, a title given one by courtesy.

Courtesy (n.) An act of civility, respect, or reverence, made by women, consisting of a slight depression or dropping of the body, with bending of the knees.

Courtesied (imp. & p. p.) of Courtesy

Courtesying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Courtesy

Courtesy (v. i.) To make a respectful salutation or movement of respect; esp. (with reference to women), to bow the body slightly, with bending of the knes.

Courtesy (v. t.) To treat with civility.

Courtehouse (n.) A house in which established courts are held, or a house appropriated to courts and public meetings.

Courtehouse (n.) A county town; -- so called in Virginia and some others of the Southern States.

Courtier (n.) One who is in attendance at the court of a prince; one who has an appointment at court.

Courtier (n.) One who courts or solicits favor; one who flatters.

Courtiery (n.) The manners of a courtier; courtliness.

Court-leet (n.) A court of record held once a year, in a particular hundred, lordship, or manor, before the steward of the leet.

Courtlike (a.) After the manner of a court; elegant; polite; courtly.

Courtliness (n.) The quality of being courtly; elegance or dignity of manners.

Courtling (n.) A sycophantic courtier.

Courtly (a.) Relating or belonging to a court.

Courtly (a.) Elegant; polite; courtlike; flattering.

Courtly (a.) Disposed to favor the great; favoring the policy or party of the court; obsequious.

Courtly (adv.) In the manner of courts; politely; gracefully; elegantly.

Courts-martial (pl. ) of Court-martial

Court-martial (n.) A court consisting of military or naval officers, for the trial of one belonging to the army or navy, or of offenses against military or naval law.

Court-martialed (imp. & p. p.) of Court-martial

Court-martialing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Court-martial

Court-martial (v. t.) To subject to trial by a court-martial.

Court-plaster (n.) Sticking plaster made by coating taffeta or silk on one side with some adhesive substance, commonly a mixture of isinglass and glycerin.

Courtship (n.) The act of paying court, with the intent to solicit a favor.

Courtship (n.) The act of wooing in love; solicitation of woman to marriage.

Courtship (n.) Courtliness; elegance of manners; courtesy.

Courtship (n.) Court policy; the character of a courtier; artifice of a court; court-craft; finesse.

Court tennis () See under Tennis.

Courtyard (n.) A court or inclosure attached to a house.

Couscous (n.) A kind of food used by the natives of Western Africa, made of millet flour with flesh, and leaves of the baobab; -- called also lalo.

Couscousou (n.) A favorite dish in Barbary. See Couscous.

Cousin (n.) One collaterally related more remotely than a brother or sister; especially, the son or daughter of an uncle or aunt.

Cousin (n.) A title formerly given by a king to a nobleman, particularly to those of the council. In English writs, etc., issued by the crown, it signifies any earl.

Cousin (n.) Allied; akin.

Cousinage (n.) Relationship; kinship.

Cousin-german (n.) A first cousin. See Note under Cousin, 1.

Cousinhood (n.) The state or condition of a cousin; also, the collective body of cousins; kinsfolk.

Cousinly (a.) Like or becoming a cousin.

Cousinry (n.) A body or collection of cousins; the whole number of persons who stand in the relation of cousins to a given person or persons.

Cousinship (n.) The relationship of cousins; state of being cousins; cousinhood.

Coussinet (n.) A stone placed on the impost of a pier for receiving the first stone of an arch.

Coussinet (n.) That part of the Ionic capital between the abacus and quarter round, which forms the volute.

Couteau (n.) A knife; a dagger.

Couth (imp. & p. p.) Could; was able; knew or known; understood.

Couvade (n.) A custom, among certain barbarous tribes, that when a woman gives birth to a child her husband takes to his bed, as if ill.

Covariant (n.) A function involving the coefficients and the variables of a quantic, and such that when the quantic is lineally transformed the same function of the new variables and coefficients shall be equal to the old function multiplied by a factor. An invariant is a like function involving only the coefficients of the quantic.

Cove (n.) A retired nook; especially, a small, sheltered inlet, creek, or bay; a recess in the shore.

Cove (n.) A strip of prairie extending into woodland; also, a recess in the side of a mountain.

Cove (n.) A concave molding.

Cove (n.) A member, whose section is a concave curve, used especially with regard to an inner roof or ceiling, as around a skylight.

Coved (imp. & p. p.) of Cove

Coving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cove

Cove (v. t.) To arch over; to build in a hollow concave form; to make in the form of a cove.

Cove (v. t.) To brood, cover, over, or sit over, as birds their eggs.

Cove (n.) A boy or man of any age or station.

Covelline (n.) Alt. of Covellite

Covellite (n.) A native sulphide of copper, occuring in masses of a dark blue color; -- hence called indigo copper.

Covenable (a.) Fit; proper; suitable.

Covenably (adv.) Fitly; suitably.

Covenant (n.) A mutual agreement of two or more persons or parties, or one of the stipulations in such an agreement.

Covenant (n.) An agreement made by the Scottish Parliament in 1638, and by the English Parliament in 1643, to preserve the reformed religion in Scotland, and to extirpate popery and prelacy; -- usually called the Solemn League and Covenant.

Covenant (n.) The promises of God as revealed in the Scriptures, conditioned on certain terms on the part of man, as obedience, repentance, faith, etc.

Covenant (n.) A solemn compact between members of a church to maintain its faith, discipline, etc.

Covenant (n.) An undertaking, on sufficient consideration, in writing and under seal, to do or to refrain from some act or thing; a contract; a stipulation; also, the document or writing containing the terms of agreement.

Covenant (n.) A form of action for the violation of a promise or contract under seal.

Covenanted (imp. & p. p.) of Covenant

Covenanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Covenant

Covenant (v. i.) To agree (with); to enter into a formal agreement; to bind one's self by contract; to make a stipulation.

Covenant (v. t.) To grant or promise by covenant.

Covenantee (n.) The person in whose favor a covenant is made.

Covenanter (n.) One who makes a covenant.

Covenanter (n.) One who subscribed and defended the Solemn League and Covenant. See Covenant.

Covenanting (a.) Belonging to a covenant. Specifically, belonging to the Scotch Covenanters.

Covenantor (n.) The party who makes a covenant.

Covenous (a.) See Covinous, and Covin.

Covent (n.) A convent or monastery.

Coventry (n.) A town in the county of Warwick, England.

Covered (imp. & p. p.) of Cover

Covering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cover

Cover (v. t.) To overspread the surface of (one thing) with another; as, to cover wood with paint or lacquer; to cover a table with a cloth.

Cover (v. t.) To envelop; to clothe, as with a mantle or cloak.

Cover (v. t.) To invest (one's self with something); to bring upon (one's self); as, he covered himself with glory.

Cover (v. t.) To hide sight; to conceal; to cloak; as, the enemy were covered from our sight by the woods.

Cover (v. t.) To brood or sit on; to incubate.

Cover (v. t.) To shelter, as from evil or danger; to protect; to defend; as, the cavalry covered the retreat.

Cover (v. t.) To remove from remembrance; to put away; to remit.

Cover (v. t.) To extend over; to be sufficient for; to comprehend, include, or embrace; to account for or solve; to counterbalance; as, a mortgage which fully covers a sum loaned on it; a law which covers all possible cases of a crime; receipts than do not cover expenses.

Cover (v. t.) To put the usual covering or headdress on.

Cover (v. t.) To copulate with (a female); to serve; as, a horse covers a mare; -- said of the male.

Cover (n.) Anything which is laid, set, or spread, upon, about, or over, another thing; an envelope; a lid; as, the cover of a book.

Cover (n.) Anything which veils or conceals; a screen; disguise; a cloak.

Cover (n.) Shelter; protection; as, the troops fought under cover of the batteries; the woods afforded a good cover.

Cover (n.) The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game; covert; as, to beat a cover; to ride to cover.

Cover (n.) The lap of a slide valve.

Cover (n.) A tablecloth, and the other table furniture; esp., the table furniture for the use of one person at a meal; as, covers were laid for fifty guests.

Cover (v. i.) To spread a table for a meal; to prepare a banquet.

Coverchief (n.) A covering for the head.

Covercle (n.) A small cover; a lid.

Covered (a.) Under cover; screened; sheltered; not exposed; hidden.

Coverer (n.) One who, or that which, covers.

Covering (n.) Anything which covers or conceals, as a roof, a screen, a wrapper, clothing, etc.

Coverlet (n.) The uppermost cover of a bed or of any piece of furniture.

Coverlid (n.) A coverlet.

Cover-point (n.) The fielder in the games of cricket and lacrosse who supports point.

Coversed sine () The versed sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.

Cover-shame (n.) Something used to conceal infamy.

Covert (v. t.) Covered over; private; hid; secret; disguised.

Covert (v. t.) Sheltered; not open or exposed; retired; protected; as, a covert nook.

Covert (v. t.) Under cover, authority or protection; as, a feme covert, a married woman who is considered as being under the protection and control of her husband.

Covert (a.) A place that covers and protects; a shelter; a defense.

Covert (a.) One of the special feathers covering the bases of the quills of the wings and tail of a bird. See Illust. of Bird.

Covert baron () Under the protection of a husband; married.

Covertly (adv.) Secretly; in private; insidiously.

Covertness (n.) Secrecy; privacy.

Coverture (n.) Covering; shelter; defense; hiding.

Coverture (n.) The condition of a woman during marriage, because she is considered under the cover, influence, power, and protection of her husband, and therefore called a feme covert, or femme couverte.

Covered (imp. & p. p.) of Covet

Coveting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Covet

Covet (v. t.) To wish for with eagerness; to desire possession of; -- used in a good sense.

Covet (v. t.) To long for inordinately or unlawfully; to hanker after (something forbidden).

Covet (v. i.) To have or indulge inordinate desire.

Covetable (a.) That may be coveted; desirable.

Coveter (n.) One who covets.

Covetise (v. t.) Avarice.

Covetiveness (n.) Acquisitiveness.

Covetous (v. t.) Very desirous; eager to obtain; -- used in a good sense.

Covetous (v. t.) Inordinately desirous; excessively eager to obtain and possess (esp. money); avaricious; -- in a bad sense.

Covetously (adv.) In a covetous manner.

Covetousness (n.) Strong desire.

Covetousness (n.) A strong or inordinate desire of obtaining and possessing some supposed good; excessive desire for riches or money; -- in a bad sense.

Covey (n.) A brood or hatch of birds; an old bird with her brood of young; hence, a small flock or number of birds together; -- said of game; as, a covey of partridges.

Covey (n.) A company; a bevy; as, a covey of girls.

Covey (v. i.) To brood; to incubate.

Covey (n.) A pantry.

Covin (n.) A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudice a third.

Covin (n.) Deceit; fraud; artifice.

Covinous (a.) Deceitful; collusive; fraudulent; dishonest.

Cow (n.) A chimney cap; a cowl

Cows (pl. ) of Cow

Kine (pl. ) of Cow

Cow (n.) The mature female of bovine animals.

Cow (n.) The female of certain large mammals, as whales, seals, etc.

Cowed (imp. & p. p.) of Cow

Cowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cow

Cow (v. t.) To depress with fear; to daunt the spirits or courage of; to overawe.

Cow (n.) A wedge, or brake, to check the motion of a machine or car; a chock.

Cowage (n.) See Cowhage.

Cowan (n.) One who works as a mason without having served a regular apprenticeship.

Coward (a.) Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs; -- said of a lion.

Coward (a.) Destitute of courage; timid; cowardly.

Coward (a.) Belonging to a coward; proceeding from, or expressive of, base fear or timidity.

Coward (n.) A person who lacks courage; a timid or pusillanimous person; a poltroon.

Coward (v. t.) To make timorous; to frighten.

Cowardice (n.) Want of courage to face danger; extreme timidity; pusillanimity; base fear of danger or hurt; lack of spirit.

Cowardie (n.) Cowardice.

Cowardish (a.) Cowardly.

Cowardize (v. t. ) To render cowardly

Cowardliness (n.) Cowardice.

Cowardly (a.) Wanting courage; basely or weakly timid or fearful; pusillanimous; spiritless.

Cowardly (a.) Proceeding from fear of danger or other consequences; befitting a coward; dastardly; base; as, cowardly malignity.

Cowardly (adv.) In the manner of a coward.

Cowardship (n.) Cowardice.

Cowbane (n.) A poisonous umbelliferous plant; in England, the Cicuta virosa; in the United States, the Cicuta maculata and the Archemora rigida. See Water hemlock.

Cowberries (pl. ) of Cowberry

Cowberry (n.) A species of Vaccinium (V. Vitis-idaea), which bears acid red berries which are sometimes used in cookery; -- locally called mountain cranberry.

Cowbird (n.) The cow blackbird (Molothrus ater), an American starling. Like the European cuckoo, it builds no nest, but lays its eggs in the nests of other birds; -- so called because frequently associated with cattle.

Cowblakes (n. pl.) Dried cow dung used as fuel.

Cowboy (n.) A cattle herder; a drover; specifically, one of an adventurous class of herders and drovers on the plains of the Western and Southwestern United States.

Cowboy (n.) One of the marauders who, in the Revolutionary War infested the neutral ground between the American and British lines, and committed depredations on the Americans.

Cowcatxjer (n.) A strong inclined frame, usually of wrought-iron bars, in front of a locomotive engine, for catching or throwing off obstructions on a railway, as cattle; the pilot.

Cowdie (n.) See Kauri.

Cowered (imp. & p. p.) of Cower

Cowering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cower

Cower (v. i.) To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, to quail; to sink through fear.

Cower (v. t.) To cherish with care.

Cowfish (n.) The grampus.

Cowfish (n.) A California dolphin (Tursiops Gillii).

Cowfish (n.) A marine plectognath fish (Ostracoin quadricorne, and allied species), having two projections, like horns, in front; -- called also cuckold, coffer fish, trunkfish.

Cowhage (n.) A leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crooked pods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causing intolerable itching. The spiculae are sometimes used in medicine as a mechanical vermifuge.

Cowhearted (a.) Cowardly.

Cowherd (n.) One whose occupation is to tend cows.

Cowhide (n.) The hide of a cow.

Cowhide (n.) Leather made of the hide of a cow.

Cowhide (n.) A coarse whip made of untanned leather.

Cowhided (imp. & p. p.) of Cowhide

Cowhiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cowhide

Cowhide (v. t.) To flog with a cowhide.

Cowish (v. t.) Timorous; fearful; cowardly.

Cowish (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum Cous) with edible tuberous roots, found in Oregon.

Cowitch (n.) See Cowhage.

Cowl (n.) A monk's hood; -- usually attached to the gown. The name was also applied to the hood and garment together.

Cowl (n.) A cowl-shaped cap, commonly turning with the wind, used to improve the draft of a chimney, ventilating shaft, etc.

Cowl (n.) A wire cap for the smokestack of a locomotive.

Cowl (n.) A vessel carried on a pole between two persons, for conveyance of water.

Cowled (a.) Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk.

Cowleech (n.) One who heals diseases of cows; a cow doctor.

Cowleeching (n.) Healing the distemper of cows.

Cowlick (n.) A tuft of hair turned up or awry (usually over the forehead), as if licked by a cow.

Cowlike (a.) Resembling a cow.

Cowlstaff (n.) A staff or pole on which a vessel is supported between two persons.

Coworker (n.) One who works with another; a co/perator.

Cow parsley () An umbelliferous plant of the genus Chaerophyllum (C. temulum and C. sylvestre).

Cow parsnip () A coarse umbelliferous weed of the genus Heracleum (H. sphondylium in England, and H. lanatum in America).

Cowpea (n.) The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genus Dolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated in the southern part of the United States.

Cowper's glands () Two small glands discharging into the male urethra.

Cow-pilot (n.) A handsomely banded, coral-reef fish, of Florida and the West Indies (Pomacentrus saxatilis); -- called also mojarra.

Cowpock (n.) See Cowpox.

Cowpox (n.) A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and kinepock.

Cowquake (n.) A genus of plants (Briza); quaking grass.

Cowrie (n.) Same as Kauri.

Cowries (pl. ) of Cowry

Cowrie (n.) Alt. of Cowry

Cowry (n.) A marine shell of the genus Cypraea.

Cowslip (n.) A common flower in England (Primula veris) having yellow blossoms and appearing in early spring. It is often cultivated in the United States.

Cowslip (n.) In the United States, the marsh marigold (Caltha palustris), appearing in wet places in early spring and often used as a pot herb. It is nearer to a buttercup than to a true cowslip. See Illust. of Marsh marigold.

Cowslipped (a.) Adorned with cowslips.

Cow's lungwort () Mullein.

Cow tree () A tree (Galactodendron utile or Brosimum Galactodendron) of South America, which yields, on incision, a nourishing fluid, resembling milk.

Cowweed (n.) Same as Cow parsley.

Cowwheat (n.) A weed of the genus Melampyrum, with black seeds, found on European wheatfields.

Cox (n.) A coxcomb; a simpleton; a gull.

Coxa (n.) The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean.

Coxalgia (n.) Alt. of Coxalgy

Coxalgy (n.) Pain in the hip.

Coxcomb (n.) A strip of red cloth notched like the comb of a cock, which licensed jesters formerly wore in their caps.

Coxcomb (n.) The cap itself.

Coxcomb (n.) The top of the head, or the head itself

Coxcomb (n.) A vain, showy fellow; a conceited, silly man, fond of display; a superficial pretender to knowledge or accomplishments; a fop.

Coxcomb (n.) A name given to several plants of different genera, but particularly to Celosia cristata, or garden cockscomb. Same as Cockscomb.

Coxcombical (a.) Befitting or indicating a coxcomb; like a coxcomb; foppish; conceited.

Coxcombly (a.) like a coxcomb.

Coxcombry (n.) The manners of a coxcomb; foppishness.

Coxcomical (a.) Coxcombical.

Coxcomically (adv.) Conceitedly.

Coxswain (n.) See Cockswain.

Coy (a.) Quiet; still.

Coy (a.) Shrinking from approach or familiarity; reserved; bashful; shy; modest; -- usually applied to women, sometimes with an implication of coquetry.

Coy (a.) Soft; gentle; hesitating.

Coyed (imp. & p. p.) of Coy

Coying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coy

Coy (v. t.) To allure; to entice; to decoy.

Coy (v. t.) To caress with the hand; to stroke.

Coy (v. i.) To behave with reserve or coyness; to shrink from approach or familiarity.

Coy (v. i.) To make difficulty; to be unwilling.

Coyish (a.) Somewhat coy or reserved.

Coyly (adv.) In a coy manner; with reserve.

Coyness (n.) The quality of being coy; feigned o/ bashful unwillingness to become familiar; reserve.

Coyote (n.) A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans), allied to the dog, found in the western part of North America; -- called also prairie wolf. Its voice is a snapping bark, followed by a prolonged, shrill howl.

Coypu (n.) A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus), allied to the beaver. It produces a valuable fur called nutria.

Coystrel (n.) Same as Coistril.

Coz (n.) A contraction of cousin.

Cozened (imp. & p. p.) of Cozen

Cozening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cozen

Cozen (v. t.) To cheat; to defraud; to beguile; to deceive, usually by small arts, or in a pitiful way.

Cozen (v. i.) To deceive; to cheat; to act deceitfully.

Cozenage (n.) The art or practice of cozening; artifice; fraud.

Cozener (n.) One who cheats or defrauds.

Cozier (n.) See Cosier.

Cozily (adv.) Snugly; comfortably.

Coziness (n.) The state or quality of being cozy.

Cozy (superl.) Snug; comfortable; easy; contented.

Cozy (superl.) Chatty; talkative; sociable; familiar.

Cozy (a.) A wadded covering for a teakettle or other vessel to keep the contents hot.

Crab (n.) One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, and usually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell or carapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body.

Crab (n.) The zodiacal constellation Cancer.

Crab (a.) A crab apple; -- so named from its harsh taste.

Crab (a.) A cudgel made of the wood of the crab tree; a crabstick.

Crab (a.) A movable winch or windlass with powerful gearing, used with derricks, etc.

Crab (a.) A form of windlass, or geared capstan, for hauling ships into dock, etc.

Crab (a.) A machine used in ropewalks to stretch the yarn.

Crab (a.) A claw for anchoring a portable machine.

Crab (v. t.) To make sour or morose; to embitter.

Crab (v. t.) To beat with a crabstick.

Crab (v. i.) To drift sidewise or to leeward, as a vessel.

Crab (a.) Sour; rough; austere.

Crabbed (n.) Characterized by or manifesting, sourness, peevishness, or moroseness; harsh; cross; cynical; -- applied to feelings, disposition, or manners.

Crabbed (n.) Characterized by harshness or roughness; unpleasant; -- applied to things; as, a crabbed taste.

Crabbed (n.) Obscure; difficult; perplexing; trying; as, a crabbed author.

Crabbed (n.) Cramped; irregular; as, crabbed handwriting.

Crabber (n.) One who catches crabs.

Crabbing (n.) The act or art of catching crabs.

Crabbing (n.) The fighting of hawks with each other.

Crabbing (n.) A process of scouring cloth between rolls in a machine.

Crabbish (a.) Somewhat sour or cross.

Crabby (a.) Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing.

Crabeater (n.) The cobia.

Crabeater (n.) An etheostomoid fish of the southern United States (Hadropterus nigrofasciatus).

Crabeater (n.) A small European heron (Ardea minuta, and other allied species).

Craber (n.) The water rat.

Crabfaced (a.) Having a sour, disagreeable countenance.

Crabsidle (v. i.) To move sidewise, as a crab. [Jocular].

Crabstick (n.) A stick, cane, or cudgel, made of the wood of the crab tree.

Crab tree () See under Crab.

Crab-yaws (n.) A disease in the West Indies. It is a kind of ulcer on the soles of the feet, with very hard edges. See Yaws.

Crache (v.) To scratch.

Cracked (imp. & p. p.) of Crack

Cracking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crack

Crack (v. t.) To break or burst, with or without entire separation of the parts; as, to crack glass; to crack nuts.

Crack (v. t.) To rend with grief or pain; to affect deeply with sorrow; hence, to disorder; to distract; to craze.

Crack (v. t.) To cause to sound suddenly and sharply; to snap; as, to crack a whip.

Crack (v. t.) To utter smartly and sententiously; as, to crack a joke.

Crack (v. t.) To cry up; to extol; -- followed by up.

Crack (v. i.) To burst or open in chinks; to break, with or without quite separating into parts.

Crack (v. i.) To be ruined or impaired; to fail.

Crack (v. i.) To utter a loud or sharp, sudden sound.

Crack (v. i.) To utter vain, pompous words; to brag; to boast; -- with of.

Crack (n.) A partial separation of parts, with or without a perceptible opening; a chink or fissure; a narrow breach; a crevice; as, a crack in timber, or in a wall, or in glass.

Crack (n.) Rupture; flaw; breach, in a moral sense.

Crack (n.) A sharp, sudden sound or report; the sound of anything suddenly burst or broken; as, the crack of a falling house; the crack of thunder; the crack of a whip.

Crack (n.) The tone of voice when changed at puberty.

Crack (n.) Mental flaw; a touch of craziness; partial insanity; as, he has a crack.

Crack (n.) A crazy or crack-brained person.

Crack (n.) A boast; boasting.

Crack (n.) Breach of chastity.

Crack (n.) A boy, generally a pert, lively boy.

Crack (n.) A brief time; an instant; as, to be with one in a crack.

Crack (n.) Free conversation; friendly chat.

Crack (a.) Of superior excellence; having qualities to be boasted of.

Crack-brained (a.) Having an impaired intellect; whimsical; crazy.

Cracked (a.) Coarsely ground or broken; as, cracked wheat.

Cracked (a.) Crack-brained.

Cracker (n.) One who, or that which, cracks.

Cracker (n.) A noisy boaster; a swaggering fellow.

Cracker (n.) A small firework, consisting of a little powder inclosed in a thick paper cylinder with a fuse, and exploding with a sharp noise; -- often called firecracker.

Cracker (n.) A thin, dry biscuit, often hard or crisp; as, a Boston cracker; a Graham cracker; a soda cracker; an oyster cracker.

Cracker (n.) A nickname to designate a poor white in some parts of the Southern United States.

Cracker (n.) The pintail duck.

Cracker (n.) A pair of fluted rolls for grinding caoutchouc.

Crackle (v. i.) To make slight cracks; to make small, sharp, sudden noises, rapidly or frequently repeated; to crepitate; as, burning thorns crackle.

Crackle (n.) The noise of slight and frequent cracks or reports; a crackling.

Crackle (n.) A kind of crackling sound or r/le, heard in some abnormal states of the lungs; as, dry crackle; moist crackle.

Crackle (n.) A condition produced in certain porcelain, fine earthenware, or glass, in which the glaze or enamel appears to be cracked in all directions, making a sort of reticulated surface; as, Chinese crackle; Bohemian crackle.

Crackled (a.) Covered with minute cracks in the glaze; -- said of some kinds of porcelain and fine earthenware.

Crackleware (n.) See Crackle, n., 3.

Crackling (n.) The making of small, sharp cracks or reports, frequently repeated.

Crackling (n.) The well-browned, crisp rind of roasted pork.

Crackling (n.) Food for dogs, made from the refuse of tallow melting.

Cracknel (v. t.) A hard brittle cake or biscuit.

Cracksmen (pl. ) of Cracksman

Cracksman (n.) A burglar.

Cracovian (a.) Of or pertaining to Cracow in Poland.

Cracovienne (n.) A lively Polish dance, in 2-4 time.

Cracowes (n. pl.) Long-toed boots or shoes formerly worn in many parts of Europe; -- so called from Cracow, in Poland, where they were first worn in the fourteenth century.

Cradle (n.) A bed or cot for a baby, oscillating on rockers or swinging on pivots; hence, the place of origin, or in which anything is nurtured or protected in the earlier period of existence; as, a cradle of crime; the cradle of liberty.

Cradle (n.) Infancy, or very early life.

Cradle (n.) An implement consisting of a broad scythe for cutting grain, with a set of long fingers parallel to the scythe, designed to receive the grain, and to lay it evenly in a swath.

Cradle (n.) A tool used in mezzotint engraving, which, by a rocking motion, raises burrs on the surface of the plate, so preparing the ground.

Cradle (n.) A framework of timbers, or iron bars, moving upon ways or rollers, used to support, lift, or carry ships or other vessels, heavy guns, etc., as up an inclined plane, or across a strip of land, or in launching a ship.

Cradle (n.) A case for a broken or dislocated limb.

Cradle (n.) A frame to keep the bedclothes from contact with the person.

Cradle (n.) A machine on rockers, used in washing out auriferous earth; -- also called a rocker.

Cradle (n.) A suspended scaffold used in shafts.

Cradle (n.) The ribbing for vaulted ceilings and arches intended to be covered with plaster.

Cradle (n.) The basket or apparatus in which, when a line has been made fast to a wrecked ship from the shore, the people are brought off from the wreck.

Cradled (imp. & p. p.) of Cradle

Cradling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cradle

Cradle (v. t.) To lay to rest, or rock, as in a cradle; to lull or quiet, as by rocking.

Cradle (v. t.) To nurse or train in infancy.

Cradle (v. t.) To cut and lay with a cradle, as grain.

Cradle (v. t.) To transport a vessel by means of a cradle.

Cradle (v. i.) To lie or lodge, as in a cradle.

Cradling (n.) The act of using a cradle.

Cradling (n.) Cutting a cask into two pieces lengthwise, to enable it to pass a narrow place, the two parts being afterward united and rehooped.

Cradling (n.) The framework in arched or coved ceilings to which the laths are nailed.

Craft (n.) Strength; might; secret power.

Craft (n.) Art or skill; dexterity in particular manual employment; hence, the occupation or employment itself; manual art; a trade.

Craft (n.) Those engaged in any trade, taken collectively; a guild; as, the craft of ironmongers.

Craft (n.) Cunning, art, or skill, in a bad sense, or applied to bad purposes; artifice; guile; skill or dexterity employed to effect purposes by deceit or shrewd devices.

Craft (n.) A vessel; vessels of any kind; -- generally used in a collective sense.

Craft (v. t.) To play tricks; to practice artifice.

Craftily (adv.) With craft; artfully; cunningly.

Craftiness (n.) Dexterity in devising and effecting a purpose; cunning; artifice; stratagem.

Craftless (a.) Without craft or cunning.

Craftsmen (pl. ) of Craftsman

Craftsman (n.) One skilled in some trade or manual occupation; an artificer; a mechanic.

Craftsmanship (n.) The work of a craftsman.

Craftsmaster (n.) One skilled in his craft or trade; one of superior cunning.

Crafty (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, craft or skill; dexterous.

Crafty (a.) Possessing dexterity; skilled; skillful.

Crafty (a.) Skillful at deceiving others; characterized by craft; cunning; wily.

Crag (n.) A steep, rugged rock; a rough, broken cliff, or point of a rock, on a ledge.

Crag (n.) A partially compacted bed of gravel mixed with shells, of the Tertiary age.

Crag (n.) The neck or throat

Crag (n.) The neck piece or scrag of mutton.

Cragged (a.) Full of crags, or steep, broken //cks; abounding with prominences, points, and inequalities; rough; rugged.

Cradgedness (n.) The quality or state of being cragged; cragginess.

Cragginess (n.) The state of being craggy.

Craggy (a.) Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, the craggy side of a mountain.

Cragsmen (pl. ) of Cragsman

Cragsman (n.) One accustomed to climb rocks or crags; esp., one who makes a business of climbing the cliffs overhanging the sea to get the eggs of sea birds or the birds themselves.

Craie (n.) See Crare.

Craig flounder () The pole flounder.

Crail (n.) A creel or osier basket.

Crake (v. t. & i.) To cry out harshly and loudly, like the bird called crake.

Crake (v. t. & i.) To boast; to speak loudly and boastfully.

Crake (n.) A boast. See Crack, n.

Crake (n.) Any species or rail of the genera Crex and Porzana; -- so called from its singular cry. See Corncrake.

Crakeberry (n.) See Crowberry.

Craker (n.) One who boasts; a braggart.

Crammed (imp. & p. p.) of Cram

Cramming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cram

Cram (v. t.) To press, force, or drive, particularly in filling, or in thrusting one thing into another; to stuff; to crowd; to fill to superfluity; as, to cram anything into a basket; to cram a room with people.

Cram (v. t.) To fill with food to satiety; to stuff.

Cram (v. t.) To put hastily through an extensive course of memorizing or study, as in preparation for an examination; as, a pupil is crammed by his tutor.

Cram (v. i.) To eat greedily, and to satiety; to stuff.

Cram (v. i.) To make crude preparation for a special occasion, as an examination, by a hasty and extensive course of memorizing or study.

Cram (n.) The act of cramming.

Cram (n.) Information hastily memorized; as, a cram from an examination.

Cram (n.) A warp having more than two threads passing through each dent or split of the reed.

Crambo (a.) A game in which one person gives a word, to which another finds a rhyme.

Crambo (a.) A word rhyming with another word.

Crammer (n.) One who crams; esp., one who prepares a pupil hastily for an examination, or a pupil who is thus prepared.

Cramoisie (a.) Alt. of Cramoisy

Cramoisy (a.) Crimson.

Cramp (n.) That which confines or contracts; a restraint; a shackle; a hindrance.

Cramp (n.) A device, usually of iron bent at the ends, used to hold together blocks of stone, timbers, etc.; a cramp iron.

Cramp (n.) A rectangular frame, with a tightening screw, used for compressing the joints of framework, etc.

Cramp (n.) A piece of wood having a curve corresponding to that of the upper part of the instep, on which the upper leather of a boot is stretched to give it the requisite shape.

Cramp (n.) A spasmodic and painful involuntary contraction of a muscle or muscles, as of the leg.

Cramped (imp. & p. p.) of Cramp

Cramping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cramp

Cramp (v. t.) To compress; to restrain from free action; to confine and contract; to hinder.

Cramp (v. t.) To fasten or hold with, or as with, a cramp.

Cramp (v. t.) to bind together; to unite.

Cramp (v. t.) To form on a cramp; as, to cramp boot legs.

Cramp (v. t.) To afflict with cramp.

Cramp (n.) Knotty; difficult.

Crampet (n.) A cramp iron or cramp ring; a chape, as of a scabbard.

Crampfish (n.) The torpedo, or electric ray, the touch of which gives an electric shock. See Electric fish, and Torpedo.

Cramp iron () See Cramp, n., 2.

Crampit (n.) See Crampet.

Crampon (n.) An a/rial rootlet for support in climbing, as of ivy.

Cramponee (a.) Having a cramp or square piece at the end; -- said of a cross so furnished.

Crampoons (n.) A clutch formed of hooked pieces of iron, like double calipers, for raising stones, lumber, blocks of ice, etc.

Crampoons (n.) Iron instruments with sharp points, worn on the shoes to assist in gaining or keeping a foothold.

Crampy () Affected with cramp.

Crampy () Productive of, or abounding in, cramps.

Cran (n.) Alt. of Crane

Crane (n.) A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel.

Cranage (n.) The liberty of using a crane, as for loading and unloading vessels.

Cranage (n.) The money or price paid for the use of a crane.

Cranberries (pl. ) of Cranberry

Cranberry (n.) A red, acid berry, much used for making sauce, etc.; also, the plant producing it (several species of Vaccinum or Oxycoccus.) The high cranberry or cranberry tree is a species of Viburnum (V. Opulus), and the other is sometimes called low cranberry or marsh cranberry to distinguish it.

Cranch (v. t.) See Craunch.

Crane (n.) A wading bird of the genus Grus, and allied genera, of various species, having a long, straight bill, and long legs and neck.

Crane (n.) A machine for raising and lowering heavy weights, and, while holding them suspended, transporting them through a limited lateral distance. In one form it consists of a projecting arm or jib of timber or iron, a rotating post or base, and the necessary tackle, windlass, etc.; -- so called from a fancied similarity between its arm and the neck of a crane See Illust. of Derrick.

Crane (n.) An iron arm with horizontal motion, attached to the side or back of a fireplace, for supporting kettles, etc., over a fire.

Crane (n.) A siphon, or bent pipe, for drawing liquors out of a cask.

Crane (n.) A forked post or projecting bracket to support spars, etc., -- generally used in pairs. See Crotch, 2.

Craned (imp. & p. p.) of Crane

Craning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crane

Crane (v. t.) To cause to rise; to raise or lift, as by a crane; -- with up.

Crane (v. t.) To stretch, as a crane stretches its neck; as, to crane the neck disdainfully.

Crane (v. i.) to reach forward with head and neck, in order to see better; as, a hunter cranes forward before taking a leap.

Crane's-bill (n.) The geranium; -- so named from the long axis of the fruit, which resembles the beak of a crane.

Crane's-bill (n.) A pair of long-beaked forceps.

Crang (n.) See Krang.

Crania (n.) A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the cranium or skull.

Cranial (a.) Of or pertaining to the cranium.

Cranioclasm (n.) The crushing of a child's head, as with the cranioclast or craniotomy forceps in cases of very difficult delivery.

Cranioclast (n.) An instrument for crushing the head of a fetus, to facilitate delivery in difficult eases.

Craniofacial (a.) Of or pertaining to the cranium and face; as, the craniofacial angle.

Craniognomy (n.) The science of the form and characteristics of the skull.

Craniological (a.) Of or pertaining to craniology.

Craniologist (n.) One proficient in craniology; a phrenologist.

Craniology (n.) The department of science (as of ethnology or archaeology) which deals with the shape, size, proportions, indications, etc., of skulls; the study of skulls.

Craniometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the size of skulls.

Craniometric (a.) Alt. of Craniometrical

Craniometrical (a.) Pertaining to craniometry.

Craniometry (n.) The art or act of measuring skulls.

Cranioscopist (n.) One skilled in, or who practices, cranioscopy.

Cranioscopy (n.) Scientific examination of the cranium.

Craniota (n. pl.) A comprehensive division of the Vertebrata, including all those that have a skull.

Craniotomy (n.) The operation of opening the fetal head, in order to effect delivery.

Craniums (pl. ) of Cranium

Crania (pl. ) of Cranium

Cranium (n.) The skull of an animal; especially, that part of the skull, either cartilaginous or bony, which immediately incloses the brain; the brain case or brainpan. See Skull.

Crank (n.) A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at right angles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to or received from it; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank.

Crank (n.) Any bend, turn, or winding, as of a passage.

Crank (n.) A twist or turn in speech; a conceit consisting in a change of the form or meaning of a word.

Crank (n.) A twist or turn of the mind; caprice; whim; crotchet; also, a fit of temper or passion.

Crank (n.) A person full of crotchets; one given to fantastic or impracticable projects; one whose judgment is perverted in respect to a particular matter.

Crank (n.) A sick person; an invalid.

Crank (n.) Sick; infirm.

Crank (n.) Liable to careen or be overset, as a ship when she is too narrow, or has not sufficient ballast, or is loaded too high, to carry full sail.

Crank (n.) Full of spirit; brisk; lively; sprightly; overconfident; opinionated.

Crank (n.) To run with a winding course; to double; to crook; to wind and turn.

Crankbird (n.) A small European woodpecker (Picus minor).

Cranked (a.) Formed with, or having, a bend or crank; as, a cranked axle.

Crankiness (n.) Crankness.

Crankle (v. t.) To break into bends, turns, or angles; to crinkle.

Crankle (v. i.) To bend, turn, or wind.

Crankle (n.) A bend or turn; a twist; a crinkle.

Crankness (n.) Liability to be overset; -- said of a ship or other vessel.

Crankness (n.) Sprightliness; vigor; health.

Cranky (a.) Full of spirit; crank.

Cranky (a.) Addicted to crotchets and whims; unreasonable in opinions; crotchety.

Cranky (a.) Unsteady; easy to upset; crank.

Crannied (a.) Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall.

Crannog (n.) Alt. of Crannoge

Crannoge (n.) One of the stockaded islands in Scotland and Ireland which in ancient times were numerous in the lakes of both countries. They may be regarded as the very latest class of prehistoric strongholds, reaching their greatest development in early historic times, and surviving through the Middle Ages. See also Lake dwellings, under Lake.

Crannies (pl. ) of Cranny

Cranny (n.) A small, narrow opening, fissure, crevice, or chink, as in a wall, or other substance.

Cranny (n.) A tool for forming the necks of bottles, etc.

Crannied (imp. & p. p.) of Cranny

Crannying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cranny

Cranny (v. i.) To crack into, or become full of, crannies.

Cranny (v. i.) To haunt, or enter by, crannies.

Cranny (a.) Quick; giddy; thoughtless.

Crantara (n.) The fiery cross, used as a rallying signal in the Highlands of Scotland.

Crants (n.) A garland carried before the bier of a maiden.

Crapaudine (n.) Turning on pivots at the top and bottom; -- said of a door.

Crapaudine (n.) An ulcer on the coronet of a horse.

Crape (n.) A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted on the mill. Black crape is much used for mourning garments, also for the dress of some clergymen.

Craped (imp. & p. p.) of Crape

Craping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crape

Crape (n.) To form into ringlets; to curl; to crimp; to friz; as, to crape the hair; to crape silk.

Crapefish (n.) Salted codfish hardened by pressure.

Crapnel (n.) A hook or drag; a grapnel.

Crappie (n.) A kind of fresh-water bass of the genus Pomoxys, found in the rivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi valley. There are several species.

Crapple (n.) A claw.

Craps (n.) A gambling game with dice.

Crapula (n.) Alt. of Crapule

Crapule (n.) Same as Crapulence.

Crapulence (n.) The sickness occasioned by intemperance; surfeit.

Crapulent (a.) Alt. of Crapulous

Crapulous (a.) Surcharged with liquor; sick from excessive indulgence in liquor; drunk; given to excesses.

Crapy (a.) Resembling crape.

Crare (n.) A slow unwieldy trading vessel.

Crase (v. t.) To break in pieces; to crack.

Crashed (imp. & p. p.) of Crash

Crashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crash

Crash (v. t. ) To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise and violence.

Crash (v. i.) To make a loud, clattering sound, as of many things falling and breaking at once; to break in pieces with a harsh noise.

Crash (v. i.) To break with violence and noise; as, the chimney in falling crashed through the roof.

Crash (n.) A loud, sudden, confused sound, as of many things falling and breaking at once.

Crash (n.) Ruin; failure; sudden breaking down, as of a business house or a commercial enterprise.

Crash (n.) Coarse, heavy, narrow linen cloth, used esp. for towels.

Crashing (n.) The noise of many things falling and breaking at once.

Crasis (n.) A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution; temperament.

Crasis (n.) A contraction of two vowels (as the final and initial vowels of united words) into one long vowel, or into a diphthong; synaeresis; as, cogo for coago.

Craspedota (n. pl.) The hydroid or naked-eyed medusae. See Hydroidea.

Craspedote (a.) Of or pertaining to the Craspedota.

Crass (a.) Gross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined.

Crassament (a.) Alt. of Crassamentum

Crassamentum (a.) A semisolid mass or clot, especially that formed in coagulation of the blood.

Crassiment (n.) See Crassament.

Crassitude (n.) Grossness; coarseness; thickness; density.

Crassness (n.) Grossness.

Crastination (n.) Procrastination; a putting off till to-morrow.

Crataegus (n.) A genus of small, hardy trees, including the hawthorn, much used for ornamental purposes.

Cratch (n.) A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack.

Crate (n.) A large basket or hamper of wickerwork, used for the transportation of china, crockery, and similar wares.

Crate (n.) A box or case whose sides are of wooden slats with interspaces, -- used especially for transporting fruit.

Crated (imp. & p. p.) of Crate

Crating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crate

Crate (v. t.) To pack in a crate or case for transportation; as, to crate a sewing machine; to crate peaches.

Crater (n.) The basinlike opening or mouth of a volcano, through which the chief eruption comes; similarly, the mouth of a geyser, about which a cone of silica is often built up.

Crater (n.) The pit left by the explosion of a mine.

Crater (n.) A constellation of the southen hemisphere; -- called also the Cup.

Crateriform (a.) Having the form of a shallow bowl; -- said of a corolla.

Craterous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a crater.

Craunched (imp. & p. p.) of Craunch

Craunching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Craunch

Craunch (v. t. & i.) To crush with the teeth; to chew with violence and noise; to crunch.

Cravat (n.) A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, worn by men about the neck.

Cravatted (a.) Wearing a cravat.

Craved (imp. & p. p.) of Crave

Craving (p pr. & vb. n.) of Crave

Crave (v. t.) To ask with earnestness or importunity; to ask with submission or humility; to beg; to entreat; to beseech; to implore.

Crave (v. t.) To call for, as a gratification; to long for; hence, to require or demand; as, the stomach craves food.

Crave (v. i.) To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing; as, a craving appetite.

Craven (a.) Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless.

Craven (n.) A recreant; a coward; a weak-hearted, spiritless fellow. See Recreant, n.

Cravened (imp. & p. p.) of Craven

Cravening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Craven

Craven (v. t.) To make recreant, weak, spiritless, or cowardly.

Craver (n.) One who craves or begs.

Craving (n.) Vehement or urgent desire; longing for; beseeching.

Craw (n.) The crop of a bird.

Craw (n.) The stomach of an animal.

-fishes (pl. ) of Crayfish

-fish (pl. ) of Crayfish

Crawfish (n.) Alt. of Crayfish

Crayfish (n.) Any crustacean of the family Astacidae, resembling the lobster, but smaller, and found in fresh waters. Crawfishes are esteemed very delicate food both in Europe and America. The North American species are numerous and mostly belong to the genus Cambarus. The blind crawfish of the Mammoth Cave is Cambarus pellucidus. The common European species is Astacus fluviatilis.

Crawford (n.) A Crawford peach; a well-known freestone peach, with yellow flesh, first raised by Mr. William Crawford, of New Jersey.

Crawled (imp. & p. p.) of Crawl

Crawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crawl

Crawl (v. i.) To move slowly by drawing the body along the ground, as a worm; to move slowly on hands and knees; to creep.

Crawl (v. i.) to move or advance in a feeble, slow, or timorous manner.

Crawl (v. i.) To advance slowly and furtively; to insinuate one's self; to advance or gain influence by servile or obsequious conduct.

Crawl (v. i.) To have a sensation as of insect creeping over the body; as, the flesh crawls. See Creep, v. i., 7.

Crawl (n.) The act or motion of crawling; slow motion, as of a creeping animal.

Crawl (n.) A pen or inclosure of stakes and hurdles on the seacoast, for holding fish.

Crawler (n.) One who, or that which, crawls; a creeper; a reptile.

Crawly (a.) Creepy.

Cray (n.) Alt. of Crayer

Crayer (n.) See Crare.

Crayfish (n.) See Crawfish.

Crayon (n.) An implement for drawing, made of clay and plumbago, or of some preparation of chalk, usually sold in small prisms or cylinders.

Crayon (n.) A crayon drawing.

Crayon (n.) A pencil of carbon used in producing electric light.

Crayoned (imp. & p. p.) of Crayon

Crayoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crayon

Crayon (v. t.) To sketch, as with a crayon; to sketch or plan.

Crazed (imp. & p. p.) of Craze

Crazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Craze

Craze (v. t.) To break into pieces; to crush; to grind to powder. See Crase.

Craze (v. t.) To weaken; to impair; to render decrepit.

Craze (v. t.) To derange the intellect of; to render insane.

Craze (v. i.) To be crazed, or to act or appear as one that is crazed; to rave; to become insane.

Craze (v. i.) To crack, as the glazing of porcelain or pottery.

Craze (n.) Craziness; insanity.

Craze (n.) A strong habitual desire or fancy; a crotchet.

Craze (n.) A temporary passion or infatuation, as for same new amusement, pursuit, or fashion; as, the bric-a-brac craze; the aesthetic craze.

Crazedness (n.) A broken state; decrepitude; an impaired state of the intellect.

Craze-mill (n.) Alt. of Crazing-mill

Crazing-mill (n.) A mill for grinding tin ore.

Crazily (adv.) In a crazy manner.

Craziness (n.) The state of being broken down or weakened; as, the craziness of a ship, or of the limbs.

Craziness (n.) The state of being broken in mind; imbecility or weakness of intellect; derangement.

Crazy (a.) Characterized by weakness or feebleness; decrepit; broken; falling to decay; shaky; unsafe.

Crazy (a.) Broken, weakened, or dissordered in intellect; shattered; demented; deranged.

Crazy (a.) Inordinately desirous; foolishly eager.

Creable (a.) Capable of being created.

Creaght (n.) A drove or herd.

Creaght (v. i.) To graze.

Creaked (imp. & p. p.) of Creak

Creaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Creak

Creak (v. i.) To make a prolonged sharp grating or squeaking sound, as by the friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak.

Creak (v. t.) To produce a creaking sound with.

Creak (n.) The sound produced by anything that creaks; a creaking.

Creaking (n.) A harsh grating or squeaking sound, or the act of making such a sound.

Cream (n.) The rich, oily, and yellowish part of milk, which, when the milk stands unagitated, rises, and collects on the surface. It is the part of milk from which butter is obtained.

Cream (n.) The part of any liquor that rises, and collects on the surface.

Cream (n.) A delicacy of several kinds prepared for the table from cream, etc., or so as to resemble cream.

Cream (n.) A cosmetic; a creamlike medicinal preparation.

Cream (n.) The best or choicest part of a thing; the quintessence; as, the cream of a jest or story; the cream of a collection of books or pictures.

Creamed (imp. & p. p.) of Cream

Creaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cream

Cream (v. t.) To skim, or take off by skimming, as cream.

Cream (v. t.) To take off the best or choicest part of.

Cream (v. t.) To furnish with, or as with, cream.

Cream (v. i.) To form or become covered with cream; to become thick like cream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff or formal; to mantle.

Creamcake (n.) A kind of cake filled with custard made of cream, eggs, etc.

Cream-colored (a.) Of the color of cream; light yellow.

Creameries (pl. ) of Creamery

Creamery (n.) A place where butter and cheese are made, or where milk and cream are put up in cans for market.

Creamery (n.) A place or apparatus in which milk is set for raising cream.

Creamery (n.) An establishment where cream is sold.

Cream-faced (a.) White or pale, as the effect of fear, or as the natural complexion.

Cream-fruit (n.) A plant of Sierra Leone which yields a wholesome, creamy juice.

Creaminess (n.) The quality of being creamy.

Cream laid () See under Laid.

Cream-slice (n.) A wooden knife with a long thin blade, used in handling cream or ice cream.

Cream-white (a.) As white as cream.

Creamy (a.) Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature, appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous.

Creance (n.) Faith; belief; creed.

Creance (n.) A fine, small line, fastened to a hawk's leash, when it is first lured.

Creance (v. i. & t.) To get on credit; to borrow.

Creant (a.) Creative; formative.

Crease (n.) See Creese.

Crease (n.) A line or mark made by folding or doubling any pliable substance; hence, a similar mark, however produced.

Crease (n.) One of the lines serving to define the limits of the bowler and the striker.

Creased (imp. & p. p.) of Crease

Creasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crease

Crease (v. t.) To make a crease or mark in, as by folding or doubling.

Creaser (n.) A tool, or a sewing-machine attachment, for making lines or creases on leather or cloth, as guides to sew by.

Creaser (n.) A tool for making creases or beads, as in sheet iron, or for rounding small tubes.

Creaser (n.) A tool for making the band impression distinct on the back.

Creasing (n.) A layer of tiles forming a corona for a wall.

Creasote (n.) See Creosote.

Creasy (a.) Full of creases.

Creat (n.) An usher to a riding master.

Creatable (a.) That may be created.

Create (a.) Created; composed; begotten.

Created (imp. & p. p.) of Create

Creating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Create

Create (v. t.) To bring into being; to form out of nothing; to cause to exist.

Create (v. t.) To effect by the agency, and under the laws, of causation; to be the occasion of; to cause; to produce; to form or fashion; to renew.

Create (v. t.) To invest with a new form, office, or character; to constitute; to appoint; to make; as, to create one a peer.

Creatic (a.) Relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creatic nausea.

Creatin (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance found abundantly in muscle tissue.

Creatinin (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related to creatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter by the action of acids, and occurring naturally in muscle tissue and in urine.

Creation (n.) The act of creating or causing to exist. Specifically, the act of bringing the universe or this world into existence.

Creation (n.) That which is created; that which is produced or caused to exist, as the world or some original work of art or of the imagination; nature.

Creation (n.) The act of constituting or investing with a new character; appointment; formation.

Creational (a.) Of or pertaining to creation.

Creationism (n.) The doctrine that a soul is specially created for each human being as soon as it is formed in the womb; -- opposed to traducianism.

Creative (a.) Having the power to create; exerting the act of creation.

Creativeness (n.) The quality of being creative.

Cretor (n.) One who creates, produces, or constitutes. Specifically, the Supreme Being.

Creatorship (n.) State or condition of a creator.

Creatress (n.) She who creates.

Creatrix (n.) A creatress.

Creatural (a.) Belonging to a creature; having the qualities of a creature.

Creature (n.) Anything created; anything not self-existent; especially, any being created with life; an animal; a man.

Creature (n.) A human being, in pity, contempt, or endearment; as, a poor creature; a pretty creature.

Creature (n.) A person who owes his rise and fortune to another; a servile dependent; an instrument; a tool.

Creature (n.) A general term among farmers for horses, oxen, etc.

Cratureless (a.) Without created beings; alone.

Creaturely (a.) Creatural; characteristic of a creature.

Creatureship (n.) The condition of being a creature.

Creaturize (v. t.) To make like a creature; to degrade

Creaze (n.) The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washing pit or buddle.

Crebricostate (a.) Marked with closely set ribs or ridges.

Crebrisulcate (a.) Marked with closely set transverse furrows.

Crebritude (n.) Frequency.

Crebrous (a.) Frequent; numerous.

Cr/che (n.) A public nursery, where the young children of poor women are cared for during the day, while their mothers are at work.

Credence (n.) Reliance of the mind on evidence of facts derived from other sources than personal knowledge; belief; credit; confidence.

Credence (n.) That which gives a claim to credit, belief, or confidence; as, a letter of credence.

Credence (n.) The small table by the side of the altar or communion table, on which the bread and wine are placed before being consecrated.

Credence (n.) A cupboard, sideboard, or cabinet, particularly one intended for the display of rich vessels or plate, and consisting chiefly of open shelves for that purpose.

Credence (v. t.) To give credence to; to believe.

Credenda (pl. ) of Credendum

Credendum (n.) A thing to be believed; an article of faith; -- distinguished from agendum, a practical duty.

Credent (a.) Believing; giving credence; credulous.

Credent (a.) Having credit or authority; credible.

Credential (a.) Giving a title or claim to credit or confidence; accrediting.

Credential (n.) That which gives a title to credit or confidence.

Credential (n.) Testimonials showing that a person is entitled to credit, or has right to exercise official power, as the letters given by a government to an ambassador or envoy, or a certificate that one is a duly elected delegate.

Credibility (n.) The quality of being credible; credibleness; as, the credibility of facts; the credibility of witnesses.

Credible (a.) Capable of being credited or believed; worthy of belief; entitled to confidence; trustworthy.

Credibleness (n.) The quality or state of being credible; worthiness of belief; credibility.

Credibly (adv.) In a manner inducing belief; as, I have been credibly informed of the event.

Credit (n.) Reliance on the truth of something said or done; belief; faith; trust; confidence.

Credit (n.) Reputation derived from the confidence of others; esteem; honor; good name; estimation.

Credit (n.) A ground of, or title to, belief or confidence; authority derived from character or reputation.

Credit (n.) That which tends to procure, or add to, reputation or esteem; an honor.

Credit (n.) Influence derived from the good opinion, confidence, or favor of others; interest.

Credit (n.) Trust given or received; expectation of future playment for property transferred, or of fulfillment or promises given; mercantile reputation entitling one to be trusted; -- applied to individuals, corporations, communities, or nations; as, to buy goods on credit.

Credit (n.) The time given for payment for lands or goods sold on trust; as, a long credit or a short credit.

Credit (n.) The side of an account on which are entered all items reckoned as values received from the party or the category named at the head of the account; also, any one, or the sum, of these items; -- the opposite of debit; as, this sum is carried to one's credit, and that to his debit; A has several credits on the books of B.

Credited (imp. & p. p.) of Credit

Crediting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Credit

Credit (v. t.) To confide in the truth of; to give credence to; to put trust in; to believe.

Credit (v. t.) To bring honor or repute upon; to do credit to; to raise the estimation of.

Credit (v. t.) To enter upon the credit side of an account; to give credit for; as, to credit the amount paid; to set to the credit of; as, to credit a man with the interest paid on a bond.

Creditable (a.) Worthy of belief.

Creditable (a.) Deserving or possessing reputation or esteem; reputable; estimable.

Creditable (a.) Bringing credit, reputation, or honor; honorable; as, such conduct is highly creditable to him.

Creditableness (n.) The quality of being creditable.

Creditably (adv.) In a creditable manner; reputably; with credit.

Credit foncier () A company licensed for the purpose of carrying out improvements, by means of loans and advances upon real securities.

Credit mobilier () A joint stock company, formed for general banking business, or for the construction of public works, by means of loans on personal estate, after the manner of the credit foncier on real estate. In practice, however, this distinction has not been strictly observed.

Creditor (n.) One who credits, believes, or trusts.

Creditor (n.) One who gives credit in business matters; hence, one to whom money is due; -- correlative to debtor.

Creditress (n.) Alt. of Creditrix

Creditrix (n.) A female creditor.

Credo (n.) The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church.

Credulity (n.) Readiness of belief; a disposition to believe on slight evidence.

Credulous (a.) Apt to believe on slight evidence; easily imposed upon; unsuspecting.

Credulous (a.) Believed too readily.

Credulously (adv.) With credulity.

Credulousness (n.) Readiness to believe on slight evidence; credulity.

Creed (v. t.) A definite summary of what is believed; esp., a summary of the articles of Christian faith; a confession of faith for public use; esp., one which is brief and comprehensive.

Creed (v. t.) Any summary of principles or opinions professed or adhered to.

Creed (v. t.) To believe; to credit.

Creedless (a.) Without a creed.

Creek (n.) A small inlet or bay, narrower and extending further into the land than a cove; a recess in the shore of the sea, or of a river.

Creek (n.) A stream of water smaller than a river and larger than a brook.

Creek (n.) Any turn or winding.

Creekfish (n.) The chub sucker.

Creeks (n. pl.) A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including the Muskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes. They formerly inhabited Georgia, Florida, and Alabama.

Creeky (a.) Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks; like a creek; winding.

Creel (n.) An osier basket, such as anglers use.

Creel (n.) A bar or set of bars with skewers for holding paying-off bobbins, as in the roving machine, throstle, and mule.

Crept (imp.) of Creep

Crope () of Creep

Crept (p. p.) of Creep

Creeping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Creep

Creep (v. t.) To move along the ground, or on any other surface, on the belly, as a worm or reptile; to move as a child on the hands and knees; to crawl.

Creep (v. t.) To move slowly, feebly, or timorously, as from unwillingness, fear, or weakness.

Creep (v. t.) To move in a stealthy or secret manner; to move imperceptibly or clandestinely; to steal in; to insinuate itself or one's self; as, age creeps upon us.

Creep (v. t.) To slip, or to become slightly displaced; as, the collodion on a negative, or a coat of varnish, may creep in drying; the quicksilver on a mirror may creep.

Creep (v. t.) To move or behave with servility or exaggerated humility; to fawn; as, a creeping sycophant.

Creep (v. t.) To grow, as a vine, clinging to the ground or to some other support by means of roots or rootlets, or by tendrils, along its length.

Creep (v. t.) To have a sensation as of insects creeping on the skin of the body; to crawl; as, the sight made my flesh creep. See Crawl, v. i., 4.

Creep (v. i.) To drag in deep water with creepers, as for recovering a submarine cable.

Creep (n.) The act or process of creeping.

Creep (n.) A distressing sensation, or sound, like that occasioned by the creeping of insects.

Creep (n.) A slow rising of the floor of a gallery, occasioned by the pressure of incumbent strata upon the pillars or sides; a gradual movement of mining ground.

Creeper (n.) One who, or that which, creeps; any creeping thing.

Creeper (n.) A plant that clings by rootlets, or by tendrils, to the ground, or to trees, etc.; as, the Virginia creeper (Ampelopsis quinquefolia).

Creeper (n.) A small bird of the genus Certhia, allied to the wrens. The brown or common European creeper is C. familiaris, a variety of which (var. Americana) inhabits America; -- called also tree creeper and creeptree. The American black and white creeper is Mniotilta varia.

Creeper (n.) A kind of patten mounted on short pieces of iron instead of rings; also, a fixture with iron points worn on a shoe to prevent one from slipping.

Creeper (n.) A spurlike device strapped to the boot, which enables one to climb a tree or pole; -- called often telegraph creepers.

Creeper (n.) A small, low iron, or dog, between the andirons.

Creeper (n.) An instrument with iron hooks or claws for dragging at the bottom of a well, or any other body of water, and bringing up what may lie there.

Creeper (n.) Any device for causing material to move steadily from one part of a machine to another, as an apron in a carding machine, or an inner spiral in a grain screen.

Creeper (n.) Crockets. See Crocket.

Creephole (n.) A hole or retreat into which an animal may creep, to escape notice or danger.

Creephole (n.) A subterfuge; an excuse.

Creepie (n.) A low stool.

Creepiness (n.) An uneasy sensation as of insects creeping on the skin.

Creeping (a.) Crawling, or moving close to the ground.

Creeping (a.) Growing along, and clinging to, the ground, or to a wall, etc., by means of rootlets or tendrils.

Creepingly (adv.) by creeping slowly; in the manner of a reptile; insidiously; cunningly.

Creeple (n.) A creeping creature; a reptile.

Creeple (n.) One who is lame; a cripple.

Creepy (a.) Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused by insects creeping on the skin.

Crees (n. pl.) An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part of British America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson's Bay.

Creese (n.) A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a serpentine blade.

Cremaillere (n.) An indented or zigzaged line of intrenchment.

Cremaster (n.) A thin muscle which serves to draw up the testicle.

Cremaster (n.) The apex of the last abdominal segment of an insect.

Cremasteric (a.) Of or pertaining to the cremaster; as, the cremasteric artery.

Cremate (v. t.) To burn; to reduce to ashes by the action of fire, either directly or in an oven or retort; to incremate or incinerate; as, to cremate a corpse, instead of burying it.

Cremation (n.) A burning; esp., the act or practice of cremating the dead.

Cremationist (n.) One who advocates the practice of cremation.

Cremator (n.) One who, or that which, cremates or consumes to ashes.

Crematoriums (pl. ) of Crematory

Crematories (pl. ) of Crematory

Crematorium (n.) Alt. of Crematory

Crematory (n.) A furnace for cremating corpses; a building containing such a furnace.

Crematory (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, cremation.

Cremocarp (n.) The peculiar fruit of fennel, carrot, parsnip, and the like, consisting of a pair of carpels pendent from a supporting axis.

Cremona (n.) A superior kind of violin, formerly made at Cremona, in Italy.

Cremor (n.) Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum.

Cremosin (n.) See Crimson.

Crems (n.) See Krems.

Crenate (a.) Alt. of Crenated

Crenated (a.) Having the margin cut into rounded teeth notches, or scallops.

Crenation (n.) A rounded tooth on the edge of a leaf.

Crenation (n.) The condition of being crenate.

Crenature (n.) A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that is crenate; -- called also crenelle.

Crenature (n.) The state of being crenated or notched.

Crenel (n.) See Crenelle.

Crenelated (imp. & p. p.) of Crenelate

Crenelating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crenelate

Crenelate (v. t.) To furnish with crenelles.

Crenelate (v. t.) To indent; to notch; as, a crenelated leaf.

Crenelation (n.) The act of crenelating, or the state of being crenelated; an indentation or an embrasure.

Crenelle (n.) Alt. of Crenel

Crenel (n.) An embrasure or indentation in a battlement; a loophole in a fortress; an indentation; a notch. See Merlon, and Illust. of Battlement.

Crenel (n.) Same as Crenature.

Crenelled (a.) Same as Crenate.

Crengle (n.) Alt. of Crenkle

Crenkle (n.) See Cringle.

Crenulate (a.) Alt. of Crenulated

Crenulated (a.) Minutely crenate.

Crenulation (n.) A minute crenation.

Crenulation (n.) The state of being minutely scalloped.

Creole (n.) One born of European parents in the American colonies of France or Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. a person of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant of Louisiana, or one of the States adjoining, bordering on the Gulf of of Mexico.

Creole (a.) Of or pertaining to a Creole or the Creoles.

Creolean (a.) Alt. of Creolian

Creolian (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Creoles.

Creolian (n. ) A Creole.

Creosol (n.) A colorless liquid resembling phenol or carbolic acid, homologous with pyrocatechin, and obtained from beechwood tar and gum guaiacum.

Creosote (n.) Wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smoky taste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown by impurity or exposure. It is a complex mixture of various phenols and their ethers, and is obtained by the distillation of wood tar, especially that of beechwood.

Creosoted (imp. & p. p.) of Creosote

Creosoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Creosote

Creosote (v. t.) To saturate or impregnate with creosote, as timber, for the prevention of decay.

Crepance (n.) Alt. of Crepane

Crepane (n.) An injury in a horse's leg, caused by the shoe of one hind foot striking and cutting the other leg. It sometimes forms an ulcer.

Crepe (n.) Same as Crape.

Crepitant (a.) Having a crackling sound; crackling; rattling.

Crepitated (imp. & p. p.) of Crepitate

Crepitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crepitate

Crepitate (v.) To make a series of small, sharp, rapidly repeated explosions or sounds, as salt in fire; to crackle; to snap.

Crepitation (n.) The act of crepitating or crackling.

Crepitation (n.) A grating or crackling sensation or sound, as that produced by rubbing two fragments of a broken bone together, or by pressing upon cellular tissue containing air.

Crepitation (n.) A crepitant rale.

Crepitus (n.) The noise produced by a sudden discharge of wind from the bowels.

Crepitus (n.) Same as Crepitation, 2.

Crepon (n.) A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool and silk.

Crept () imp. & p. p. of Creep.

Crepuscle (n.) Alt. of Crepuscule

Crepuscule (n.) Twilight.

Crepuscular (a.) Alt. of Crepusculous

Crepusculous (a.) Pertaining to twilight; glimmering; hence, imperfectly clear or luminous.

Crepusculous (a.) Flying in the twilight or evening, or before sunrise; -- said certain birds and insects.

Crepusculine (a.) Crepuscular.

Crescence (n.) Increase; enlargement.

Crescendo (a. & adv.) With a constantly increasing volume of voice; with gradually increasing strength and fullness of tone; -- a direction for the performance of music, indicated by the mark, or by writing the word on the score.

Crescendo (n.) A gradual increase in the strength and fullness of tone with which a passage is performed.

Crescendo (n.) A passage to be performed with constantly increasing volume of tone.

Crescent (n.) The increasing moon; the moon in her first quarter, or when defined by a concave and a convex edge; also, applied improperly to the old or decreasing moon in a like state.

Crescent (n.) Anything having the shape of a crescent or new moon.

Crescent (n.) A representation of the increasing moon, often used as an emblem or badge

Crescent (n.) A symbol of Artemis, or Diana.

Crescent (n.) The ancient symbol of Byzantium or Constantinople.

Crescent (n.) The emblem of the Turkish Empire, adopted after the taking of Constantinople.

Crescent (n.) Any one of three orders of knighthood; the first instituted by Charles I., king of Naples and Sicily, in 1268; the second by Rene of Anjou, in 1448; and the third by the Sultan Selim III., in 1801, to be conferred upon foreigners to whom Turkey might be indebted for valuable services.

Crescent (n.) The emblem of the increasing moon with horns directed upward, when used in a coat of arms; -- often used as a mark of cadency to distinguish a second son and his descendants.

Crescent (a.) Shaped like a crescent.

Crescent (a.) Increasing; growing.

Crescent (v. t.) To form into a crescent, or something resembling a crescent.

Crescent (v. t.) To adorn with crescents.

Crescentic (a.) Crescent-shaped.

Crescentwise (adv.) In the form of a crescent; like a crescent.

Crescive (a.) Increasing; growing.

Cresol (n.) Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologous with and resembling phenol. They are obtained from coal tar and wood tar, and are colorless, oily liquids or solids. [Called also cresylic acid.]

Cresorcin (n.) Same as Isorcin.

Cresses (pl. ) of Cress

Cress (n.) A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous. The leaves have a moderately pungent taste, and are used as a salad and antiscorbutic.

Cresselle (n.) A wooden rattle sometimes used as a substitute for a bell, in the Roman Catholic church, during the latter part of Holy Week, or the last week of Lent.

Cresset (n.) An open frame or basket of iron, filled with combustible material, to be burned as a beacon; an open lamp or firrepan carried on a pole in nocturnal processions.

Cresset (n.) A small furnace or iron cage to hold fire for charring the inside of a cask, and making the staves flexible.

Cressy (a.) Abounding in cresses.

Crest (n.) A tuft, or other excrescence or natural ornament, growing on an animal's head; the comb of a cock; the swelling on the head of a serpent; the lengthened feathers of the crown or nape of bird, etc.

Crest (n.) The plume of feathers, or other decoration, worn on a helmet; the distinctive ornament of a helmet, indicating the rank of the wearer; hence, also, the helmet.

Crest (n.) A bearing worn, not upon the shield, but usually above it, or separately as an ornament for plate, liveries, and the like. It is a relic of the ancient cognizance. See Cognizance, 4.

Crest (n.) The upper curve of a horse's neck.

Crest (n.) The ridge or top of a wave.

Crest (n.) The summit of a hill or mountain ridge.

Crest (n.) The helm or head, as typical of a high spirit; pride; courage.

Crest (n.) The ornamental finishing which surmounts the ridge of a roof, canopy, etc.

Crest (n.) The top line of a slope or embankment.

Crested (imp. & p. p.) of Crest

Cresting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crest

Crest (v. t.) To furnish with, or surmount as, a crest; to serve as a crest for.

Crest (v. t.) To mark with lines or streaks, like, or regarded as like, waving plumes.

Crest (v. i.) To form a crest.

Crested (a.) Having a crest.

Crested (a.) Having a crest of feathers or hair upon the head.

Crested (a.) Bearing any elevated appendage like a crest, as an elevated line or ridge, or a tuft.

Crestfallen (a.) With hanging head; hence, dispirited; dejected; cowed.

Crestfallen (a.) Having the crest, or upper part of the neck, hanging to one side; -- said of a horse.

Cresting (n.) An ornamental finish on the top of a wall or ridge of a roof.

Crestless (a.) Without a crest or escutcheon; of low birth.

Cresylic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cresol, creosote, etc.

Cretaceous (a.) Having the qualities of chalk; abounding with chalk; chalky; as, cretaceous rocks and formations. See Chalk.

Cretaceously (adv.) In a chalky manner; as chalk.

Cretan (a.) Pertaining to Crete, or Candia.

Cretan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Crete or Candia.

Crete (n.) A Cretan

Cretian (a. & n.) See Cretan.

Cretic (n.) A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two long ones (- / -).

Creticism (n.) Falsehood; lying; cretism.

Cretin (n.) One afflicted with cretinism.

Cretinism (n.) A condition of endemic or inherited idiocy, accompanied by physical degeneracy and deformity (usually with goiter), frequent in certain mountain valleys, esp. of the Alps.

Cretinous (a.) Having the characteristics of a cretin.

Cretism (n.) A Cretan practice; lying; a falsehood.

Cretonne (n.) A strong white fabric with warp of hemp and weft of flax.

Cretonne (n.) A fabric with cotton warp and woolen weft.

Cretonne (n.) A kind of chintz with a glossy surface.

Cretose (a.) Chalky; cretaceous.

Creutzer (n.) See Kreutzer.

Creux (n.) Used in English only in the expression en creux. Thus, engraving en creux is engraving in intaglio, or by sinking or hollowing out the design.

Crevalle (n.) The cavally or jurel.

Crevalle (n.) The pompano (Trachynotus Carolinus).

Crevasse (n.) A deep crevice or fissure, as in embankment; one of the clefts or fissure by which the mass of a glacier is divided.

Crevasse (n.) A breach in the levee or embankment of a river, caused by the pressure of the water, as on the lower Mississippi.

Crevet (n.) A crucible or melting pot; a cruset.

Crevice (n.) A narrow opening resulting from a split or crack or the separation of a junction; a cleft; a fissure; a rent.

Crevice (v. t.) To crack; to flaw.

Creviced (a.) Having a crevice or crevices; as, a creviced structure for storing ears of corn.

Crevis (n.) The crawfish.

Crew (n.) The Manx shearwater.

Crew (n.) A company of people associated together; an assemblage; a throng.

Crew (n.) The company of seamen who man a ship, vessel, or at; the company belonging to a vessel or a boat.

Crew (n.) In an extended sense, any small body of men associated for a purpose; a gang; as (Naut.), the carpenter's crew; the boatswain's crew.

Crew () imp. of Crow

Crewel (n.) Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery.

Crewelwork (n.) Embroidery in crewels, commonly done upon some plain material, such as linen.

Crewet (n.) See Cruet.

Crib (n.) A manger or rack; a feeding place for animals.

Crib (n.) A stall for oxen or other cattle.

Crib (n.) A small inclosed bedstead or cot for a child.

Crib (n.) A box or bin, or similar wooden structure, for storing grain, salt, etc.; as, a crib for corn or oats.

Crib (n.) A hovel; a hut; a cottage.

Crib (n.) A structure or frame of timber for a foundation, or for supporting a roof, or for lining a shaft.

Crib (n.) A structure of logs to be anchored with stones; -- used for docks, pier, dams, etc.

Crib (n.) A small raft of timber.

Crib (n.) A small theft; anything purloined;; a plagiaris/; hence, a translation or key, etc., to aid a student in preparing or reciting his lessons.

Crib (n.) A miner's luncheon.

Crib (n.) The discarded cards which the dealer can use in scoring points in cribbage.

Cribbed (imp. & p. p.) of Crib

Cribbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crib

Crib (v. t.) To shut up or confine in a narrow habitation; to cage; to cramp.

Crib (v. t.) To pilfer or purloin; hence, to steal from an author; to appropriate; to plagiarize; as, to crib a line from Milton.

Crib (v. i.) To crowd together, or to be confined, as in a crib or in narrow accommodations.

Crib (v. i.) To make notes for dishonest use in recitation or examination.

Crib (v. i.) To seize the manger or other solid object with the teeth and draw in wind; -- said of a horse.

Cribbage (v. t.) A game of cards, played by two or four persons, in which there is a crib. (See Crib, 11.) It is characterized by a great variety of chances.

Criber (n.) Alt. of Crib-biter

Crib-biter (n.) A horse that has the habit of cribbing.

Cribbing (n.) The act of inclosing or confining in a crib or in close quarters.

Cribbing (n.) Purloining; stealing; plagiarizing.

Cribbing (n.) A framework of timbers and plank backing for a shaft lining, to prevent caving, percolation of water, etc.

Cribbing (n.) A vicious habit of a horse; crib-biting. The horse lays hold of the crib or manger with his teeth and draws air into the stomach with a grunting sound.

Crib-biting (n.) Same as Cribbing, 4.

Cribble (n.) A coarse sieve or screen.

Cribble (n.) Coarse flour or meal.

Cribbled (imp. & p. p.) of Cribble

Cribbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cribble

Cribble (v. t.) To cause to pass through a sieve or riddle; to sift.

Cribble (a.) Coarse; as, cribble bread.

Cribellum (n.) A peculiar perforated organ of certain spiders (Ciniflonidae), used for spinning a special kind of silk.

Cribrate (a.) Cribriform.

Cribration (n.) The act or process of separating the finer parts of drugs from the coarser by sifting.

Cribriform (a.) Resembling, or having the form of, a sieve; pierced with holes; as, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; a cribriform compress.

Cribrose (a.) Perforated like a sieve; cribriform.

Cric (n.) The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp.

Crick (n.) The creaking of a door, or a noise resembling it.

Crick (n.) A painful, spasmodic affection of the muscles of some part of the body, as of the neck or back, rendering it difficult to move the part.

Crick (n.) A small jackscrew.

Cricket (n.) An orthopterous insect of the genus Gryllus, and allied genera. The males make chirping, musical notes by rubbing together the basal parts of the veins of the front wings.

Cricket (n.) A low stool.

Cricket (n.) A game much played in England, and sometimes in America, with a ball, bats, and wickets, the players being arranged in two contesting parties or sides.

Cricket (n.) A small false roof, or the raising of a portion of a roof, so as to throw off water from behind an obstacle, such as a chimney.

Cricket (v. i.) To play at cricket.

Cricketer (n.) One who plays at cricket.

Cricoid (a.) Resembling a ring; -- said esp. of the cartilage at the larynx, and the adjoining parts.

Cricothyroid (a.) Of or pertaining both to the cricoid and the thyroid cartilages.

Cried () imp. & p. p. of Cry.

Crier (n.) One who cries; one who makes proclamation.

Crier (n.) an officer who proclaims the orders or directions of a court, or who gives public notice by loud proclamation; as, a town-crier.

Crime (n.) Any violation of law, either divine or human; an omission of a duty commanded, or the commission of an act forbidden by law.

Crime (n.) Gross violation of human law, in distinction from a misdemeanor or trespass, or other slight offense. Hence, also, any aggravated offense against morality or the public welfare; any outrage or great wrong.

Crime (n.) Any great wickedness or sin; iniquity.

Crime (n.) That which occasion crime.

Crimeful (a.) Criminal; wicked; contrary to law, right, or dury.

Crimeless (a.) Free from crime; innocent.

Criminal (a.) Guilty of crime or sin.

Criminal (a.) Involving a crime; of the nature of a crime; -- said of an act or of conduct; as, criminal carelessness.

Criminal (a.) Relating to crime; -- opposed to civil; as, the criminal code.

Criminal (n.) One who has commited a crime; especially, one who is found guilty by verdict, confession, or proof; a malefactor; a felon.

Criminalist (n.) One versed in criminal law.

Criminality (n.) The quality or state of being criminal; that which constitutes a crime; guiltiness; guilt.

Criminally (adv.) In violation of law; wickedly.

Criminalness (n.) Criminality.

Criminated (imp. & p. p.) of Criminate

Criminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Criminate

Criminate (v. t. ) To accuse of, or charge with, a crime.

Criminate (v. t. ) To involve in a crime or in its consequences; to render liable to a criminal charge.

Crimination (n.) The act of accusing; accusation; charge; complaint.

Criminative (a.) Charging with crime; accusing; criminatory.

Criminatory (a.) Relating to, or involving, crimination; accusing; as, a criminatory conscience.

Criminology (n.) A treatise on crime or the criminal population.

Criminous (a.) Criminal; involving great crime or grave charges; very wicked; heinous.

Crimosin (n.) See Crimson.

Crimped (imp. & p. p.) of Crimp

Crimping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crimp

Crimp (v. t.) To fold or plait in regular undulation in such a way that the material will retain the shape intended; to give a wavy appearance to; as, to crimp the border of a cap; to crimp a ruffle. Cf. Crisp.

Crimp (v. t.) To pinch and hold; to seize.

Crimp (v. t.) to entrap into the military or naval service; as, to crimp seamen.

Crimp (v. t.) To cause to contract, or to render more crisp, as the flesh of a fish, by gashing it, when living, with a knife; as, to crimp skate, etc.

Crimp (a.) Easily crumbled; friable; brittle.

Crimp (a.) Weak; inconsistent; contradictory.

Crimp (n.) A coal broker.

Crimp (n.) One who decoys or entraps men into the military or naval service.

Crimp (n.) A keeper of a low lodging house where sailors and emigrants are entrapped and fleeced.

Crimp (n.) Hair which has been crimped; -- usually in pl.

Crimp (n.) A game at cards.

Crimpage (n.) The act or practice of crimping; money paid to a crimp for shipping or enlisting men.

Crimper (n.) One who, or that which, crimps

Crimper (n.) A curved board or frame over which the upper of a boot or shoe is stretched to the required shape.

Crimper (n.) A device for giving hair a wavy appearance.

Crimper (n.) A machine for crimping or ruffling textile fabrics.

Crimpled (imp. & p. p.) of Crimple

Crimpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crimple

Crimple (v. t.) To cause to shrink or draw together; to contract; to curl.

Crimpy (a.) Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool of the Saxony sheep.

Crimson (n.) A deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.

Crimson (a.) Of a deep red color tinged with blue; deep red.

Crimsoned (imp. & p. p.) of Crimson

Crimsoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crimson

Crimson (v. t.) To dye with crimson or deep red; to redden.

Crimson (b. t.) To become crimson; to blush.

Crinal (a.) Of or pertaining to the hair.

Crinated (a.) Having hair; hairy.

Crinatory (a.) Crinitory.

Crincum (n.) A twist or bend; a turn; a whimsey.

Crincum-crancum (n.) A twist; a whimsey or whim.

Crined (a.) Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of the body; as, a charge crined of a red tincture.

Crinel (n.) Alt. of Crinet

Crinet (n.) A very fine, hairlike feather.

Crnged (imp. & p. p.) of Cringe

Cringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cringe

Cringe (v. t.) To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend or crouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in a degrading manner; to fawn.

Cringe (v. t.) To contract; to draw together; to cause to shrink or wrinkle; to distort.

Cringe (n.) Servile civility; fawning; a shrinking or bowing, as in fear or servility.

Cringeling (n.) One who cringes meanly; a fawner.

Cringer (n.) One who cringes.

Cringingly (adv.) In a cringing manner.

Cringle (n.) A withe for fastening a gate.

Cringle (n.) An iron or pope thimble or grommet worked into or attached to the edges and corners of a sail; -- usually in the plural. The cringles are used for making fast the bowline bridles, earings, etc.

Crinicultural (a.) Relating to the growth of hair.

Crinigerous (a.) Bearing hair; hairy.

Crinital (a.) Same as Crinite, 1.

Crinite (a.) Having the appearance of a tuft of hair; having a hairlike tail or train.

Crinite (a.) Bearded or tufted with hairs.

Crinitory (a.) Of or relating to hair; as, a crinitory covering.

Crinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Crinkle

Crinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crinkle

Crinkle (v. t.) To form with short turns, bends, or wrinkles; to mold into inequalities or sinuosities; to cause to wrinkle or curl.

Crinkle (v. i.) To turn or wind; to run in and out in many short bends or turns; to curl; to run in waves; to wrinkle; also, to rustle, as stiff cloth when moved.

Crinkle (n.) A winding or turn; wrinkle; sinuosity.

Crinkled (a.) Having short bends, turns, or wrinkles; wrinkled; wavy; zigzag.

Crinkly (a.) Having crinkles; wavy; wrinkly.

Crinoid (a.) Crinoidal.

Crinoid (n.) One of the Crinoidea.

Crinoidal (a.) Of pertaining to crinoids; consisting of, or containing, crinoids.

Crinoidea (n. pl.) A large class of Echinodermata, including numerous extinct families and genera, but comparatively few living ones. Most of the fossil species, like some that are recent, were attached by a jointed stem. See Blastoidea, Cystoidea, Comatula.

Crinoidean (n.) One of the Crinoidea.

Crinoline (n.) A kind of stiff cloth, used chiefly by women, for underskirts, to expand the gown worn over it; -- so called because originally made of hair.

Crinoline (n.) A lady's skirt made of any stiff material; latterly, a hoop skirt.

Crinose (a.) Hairy.

Crinosity (n.) Hairiness.

Crinum (n.) A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace/, cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty.

Criosphinx (n.) A sphinx with the head of a ram.

Cripple (n.) One who creeps, halts, or limps; one who has lost, or never had, the use of a limb or limbs; a lame person; hence, one who is partially disabled.

Cripple (a.) Lame; halting.

Crippled (imp. & p. p.) of Cripple

Crippling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cripple

Cripple (v. t.) To deprive of the use of a limb, particularly of a leg or foot; to lame.

Cripple (v. t.) To deprive of strength, activity, or capability for service or use; to disable; to deprive of resources; as, to be financially crippled.

Crippled (a.) Lamed; lame; disabled; impeded.

Crippleness (n.) Lameness.

Crippler (n.) A wooden tool used in graining leather.

Crippling (n.) Spars or timbers set up as a support against the side of a building.

Cripply (a.) Lame; disabled; in a crippled condition.

Crises (pl. ) of Crisis

Crisis (n.) The point of time when it is to be decided whether any affair or course of action must go on, or be modified or terminate; the decisive moment; the turning point.

Crisis (n.) That change in a disease which indicates whether the result is to be recovery or death; sometimes, also, a striking change of symptoms attended by an outward manifestation, as by an eruption or sweat.

Crisp (a.) Curling in stiff curls or ringlets; as, crisp hair.

Crisp (a.) Curled with the ripple of the water.

Crisp (a.) Brittle; friable; in a condition to break with a short, sharp fracture; as, crisp snow.

Crisp (a.) Possessing a certain degree of firmness and freshness; in a fresh, unwilted condition.

Crisp (a.) Lively; sparking; effervescing.

Crisp (a.) Brisk; crackling; cheerful; lively.

Crisped (imp. & p. p.) of Crisp

Crisping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crisp

Crisp (a.) To curl; to form into ringlets, as hair, or the nap of cloth; to interweave, as the branches of trees.

Crisp (a.) To cause to undulate irregularly, as crape or water; to wrinkle; to cause to ripple. Cf. Crimp.

Crisp (a.) To make crisp or brittle, as in cooking.

Crisp (v. i.) To undulate or ripple. Cf. Crisp, v. t.

Crisp (n.) That which is crisp or brittle; the state of being crisp or brittle; as, burned to a crisp; specifically, the rind of roasted pork; crackling.

Crispate (a.) Alt. of Crispated

Crispated (a.) Having a crisped appearance; irregularly curled or twisted.

Crispation (n.) The act or process of curling, or the state of being curled.

Crispation (n.) A very slight convulsive or spasmodic contraction of certain muscles, external or internal.

Crispature (n.) The state of being crispate.

Crisper (n.) One who, or that which, crisps or curls; an instrument for making little curls in the nap of cloth, as in chinchilla.

Crispin (n.) A shoemaker; -- jocularly so called from the patron saint of the craft.

Crispin (n.) A member of a union or association of shoemakers.

Crisply (adv.) In a crisp manner.

Crispness (n.) The state or quality of being crisp.

Crispy (a.) Formed into short, close ringlets; frizzed; crisp; as, crispy locks.

Crispy (a.) Crisp; brittle; as, a crispy pie crust.

Crissal (a.) Pertaining to the crissum; as, crissal feathers.

Crissal (a.) Having highly colored under tail coverts; as, the crissal thrasher.

Crisscross (n.) A mark or cross, as the signature of a person who is unable to write.

Crisscross (n.) A child's game played on paper or on a slate, consisting of lines arranged in the form of a cross.

Crisscross (v. t.) To mark or cover with cross lines; as, a paper was crisscrossed with red marks.

Crisscross (adv.) In opposite directions; in a way to cross something else; crossing one another at various angles and in various ways.

Crisscross (adv.) With opposition or hindrance; at cross purposes; contrarily; as, things go crisscross.

Crisscross-row (n.) See Christcross-row.

Crissa (pl. ) of Crissum

Crissum (n.) That part of a bird, or the feathers, surrounding the cloacal opening; the under tail coverts.

Cristate (a.) Crested.

Criteria (pl. ) of Criterion

Criterions (pl. ) of Criterion

Criterion (n.) A standard of judging; any approved or established rule or test, by which facts, principles opinions, and conduct are tried in forming a correct judgment respecting them.

Crith (n.) The unit for estimating the weight of a/riform substances; -- the weight of a liter of hydrogen at 0/ centigrade, and with a tension of 76 centimeters of mercury. It is 0.0896 of a gram, or 1.38274 grains.

Crithomancu (n.) A kind of divination by means of the dough of the cakes offered in the ancient sacrifices, and the meal strewed over the victims.

Critic (n.) One skilled in judging of the merits of literary or artistic works; a connoisseur; an adept; hence, one who examines literary or artistic works, etc., and passes judgment upon them; a reviewer.

Critic (n.) One who passes a rigorous or captious judgment; one who censures or finds fault; a harsh examiner or judge; a caviler; a carper.

Critic (n.) The art of criticism.

Critic (n.) An act of criticism; a critique.

Critic (a.) Of or pertaining to critics or criticism; critical.

Critic (v. i.) To criticise; to play the critic.

Critical (n.) Qualified to criticise, or pass judgment upon, literary or artistic productions.

Critical (n.) Pertaining to criticism or the critic's art; of the nature of a criticism; accurate; as, critical knowledge; a critical dissertation.

Critical (n.) Inclined to make nice distinctions, or to exercise careful judgment and selection; exact; nicely judicious.

Critical (n.) Inclined to criticise or find fault; fastidious; captious; censorious; exacting.

Critical (n.) Characterized by thoroughness and a reference to principles, as becomes a critic; as, a critical analysis of a subject.

Critical (n.) Pertaining to, or indicating, a crisis, turning point, or specially important juncture; important as regards consequences; hence, of doubtful issue; attended with risk; dangerous; as, the critical stage of a fever; a critical situation.

Critically (adv.) In a critical manner; with nice discernment; accurately; exactly.

Critically (adv.) At a crisis; at a critical time; in a situation, place, or condition of decisive consequence; as, a fortification critically situated.

Criticalness (n.) The state or quality of being critical, or of occurring at a critical time.

Criticalness (n.) Accuracy in examination or decision; exactness.

Criticaster (n.) A contemptible or vicious critic.

Criticisable (a.) Capable of being criticised.

Criticised (imp. & p. p.) of Criticise

Criticising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Criticise

Criticise (v. t.) To examine and judge as a critic; to pass literary or artistic judgment upon; as, to criticise an author; to criticise a picture.

Criticise (v. t.) To express one's views as to the merit or demerit of; esp., to animadvert upon; to find fault with; as, to criticise conduct.

Criticise (v. i.) To act as a critic; to pass literary or artistic judgment; to play the critic; -- formerly used with on or upon.

Criticise (v. i.) To discuss the merits or demerits of a thing or person; esp., to find fault.

Criticiser (n.) One who criticises; a critic.

Criticism (n.) The rules and principles which regulate the practice of the critic; the art of judging with knowledge and propriety of the beauties and faults of a literary performance, or of a production in the fine arts; as, dramatic criticism.

Criticism (n.) The act of criticising; a critical judgment passed or expressed; a critical observation or detailed examination and review; a critique; animadversion; censure.

Critique (n.) The art of criticism.

Critique (n.) A critical examination or estimate of a work of literature or art; a critical dissertation or essay; a careful and through analysis of any subject; a criticism; as, Kant's Critique of Pure Reason.

Critique (n.) A critic; one who criticises.

Critique (v.) To criticise or pass judgment upon.

Crizzel (n.) A kind of roughness on the surface of glass, which clouds its transparency.

Croaked (imp. & p. p.) of Croak

Croaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Croak

Croak (v. i.) To make a low, hoarse noise in the throat, as a frog, a raven, or a crow; hence, to make any hoarse, dismal sound.

Croak (v. i.) To complain; especially, to grumble; to forebode evil; to utter complaints or forebodings habitually.

Croak (v. t.) To utter in a low, hoarse voice; to announce by croaking; to forebode; as, to croak disaster.

Croak (n.) The coarse, harsh sound uttered by a frog or a raven, or a like sound.

Croaker (n.) One who croaks, murmurs, grumbles, or complains unreasonably; one who habitually forebodes evil.

Croaker (n.) A small American fish (Micropogon undulatus), of the Atlantic coast.

Croaker (n.) An American fresh-water fish (Aplodinotus grunniens); -- called also drum.

Croaker (n.) The surf fish of California.

Croat (n.) A native of Croatia, in Austria; esp., one of the native Slavic race.

Croat (n.) An irregular soldier, generally from Croatia.

Croatian (a.) Of or pertaining to Croatia.

Croatian (n.) A Croat.

Crocein (n.) A name given to any one of several yellow or scarlet dyestuffs of artificial production and complex structure. In general they are diazo and sulphonic acid derivatives of benzene and naphthol.

Croceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, saffron; deep reddish yellow.

Crocetin (n.) A dyestuff, obtained from the Chinese crocin, which produces a brilliant yellow.

Croche (n.) A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler.

Crochet (n.) A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, with worsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work. Commonly used adjectively.

Crocheted (imp. & p. p.) of Crochet

Crocheting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crochet

Crochet (v. t. & i.) To knit with a crochet needle or hook; as, to crochet a shawl.

Crociary (n.) One who carries the cross before an archbishop.

Crocidolite (n.) A mineral occuring in silky fibers of a lavender blue color. It is related to hornblende and is essentially a silicate of iron and soda; -- called also blue asbestus. A silicified form, in which the fibers penetrating quartz are changed to oxide of iron, is the yellow brown tiger-eye of the jewelers.

Crocin (n.) The coloring matter of Chinese yellow pods, the fruit of Gardenia grandiflora.

Crocin (n.) A red powder (called also polychroite), which is made from the saffron (Crocus sativus). See Polychroite.

Crock (n.) The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on pots and kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter which rubs off from cloth.

Crocked (imp. & p. p.) of Crock

Crocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crock

Crock (v. t.) To soil by contact, as with soot, or with the coloring matter of badly dyed cloth.

Crock (v. i.) To give off crock or smut.

Crock (n.) A low stool.

Crock (n.) Any piece of crockery, especially of coarse earthenware; an earthen pot or pitcher.

Crock (v. t.) To lay up in a crock; as, to crock butter.

Crocker (n.) A potter.

Crockery (n.) Earthenware; vessels formed of baked clay, especially the coarser kinds.

Crocket (n.) An ornament often resembling curved and bent foliage, projecting from the sloping edge of a gable, spire, etc.

Crocket (n.) A croche, or knob, on the top of a stag's antler.

Crocketed (a.) Ornamented with crockets.

Crocketing (n.) Ornamentation with crockets.

Crocky (a.) Smutty.

Crocodile (n.) A large reptile of the genus Crocodilus, of several species. They grow to the length of sixteen or eighteen feet, and inhabit the large rivers of Africa, Asia, and America. The eggs, laid in the sand, are hatched by the sun's heat. The best known species is that of the Nile (C. vulgaris, or C. Niloticus). The Florida crocodile (C. Americanus) is much less common than the alligator and has longer jaws. The name is also sometimes applied to the species of other related genera, as the gavial and the alligator.

Crocodile (n.) A fallacious dilemma, mythically supposed to have been first used by a crocodile.

Crocodilia (n. pl.) An order of reptiles including the crocodiles, gavials, alligators, and many extinct kinds.

Crocodilian (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the crocodile; characteristic of the crocodile.

Crocodilian (n.) One of the Crocodilia.

Crocodility (n.) A caption or sophistical mode of arguing.

Crocoisite (n.) Same as Crocoite.

Crocoite (n.) Lead chromate occuring in crystals of a bright hyacinth red color; -- called also red lead ore.

Croconate (n.) A salt formed by the union of croconic acid with a base.

Croconic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling saffron; having the color of saffron; as, croconic acid.

Croconic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, croconic acid.

Crocose (n.) A white crystalline sugar, metameric with glucose, obtained from the coloring matter of saffron.

Crocus (n.) A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms rising separately from the bulb or corm. C. vernus is one of the earliest of spring-blooming flowers; C. sativus produces the saffron, and blossoms in the autumn.

Crocus (n.) A deep yellow powder; the oxide of some metal calcined to a red or deep yellow color; esp., the oxide of iron (Crocus of Mars or colcothar) thus produced from salts of iron, and used as a polishing powder.

Croesus (n.) A king of Lydia who flourished in the 6th century b. c., and was renowned for his vast wealth; hence, a common appellation for a very rich man; as, he is a veritable Croesus.

Croft (n.) A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm.

Crofter (n.) One who rents and tills a small farm or helding; as, the crofters of Scotland.

Crefting (n.) Croftland.

Crefting (n.) Exposing linen to the sun, on the grass, in the process of bleaching.

Croftland (n.) Land of superior quality, on which successive crops are raised.

Crois (n.) See Cross, n.

Croisade (n.) Alt. of Croisado

Croisado (n.) A holy war; a crusade.

Croise (n.) A pilgrim bearing or wearing a cross.

Croise (n.) A crusader.

Croissante (a.) Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of which are so terminated.

Croker (n.) A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron.

Croma (n.) A quaver.

Cromlech (n.) A monument of rough stones composed of one or more large ones supported in a horizontal position upon others. They are found chiefly in countries inhabited by the ancient Celts, and are of a period anterior to the introduction of Christianity into these countries.

Cromorna (n.) A certain reed stop in the organ, of a quality of tone resembling that of the oboe.

Crone (n.) An old ewe.

Crone (n.) An old woman; -- usually in contempt.

Crone (n.) An old man; especially, a man who talks and acts like an old woman.

Cronel (n.) The iron head of a tilting spear.

Cronet (n.) The coronet of a horse.

Cronian (a.) Saturnian; -- applied to the North Polar Sea.

Cronstedtite (n.) A mineral consisting principally of silicate of iron, and crystallizing in hexagonal prisms with perfect basal cleavage; -- so named from the Swedish mineralogist Cronstedt.

Cronies (pl. ) of Crony

Crony (n.) A crone.

Crony (n.) An intimate companion; a familiar frend

Croodle (v. i.) To cower or cuddle together, as from fear or cold; to lie close and snug together, as pigs in straw.

Croodle (v. i.) To fawn or coax.

Croodle (v. i.) To coo.

Crook (n.) A bend, turn, or curve; curvature; flexure.

Crook (n.) Any implement having a bent or crooked end.

Crook (n.) The staff used by a shepherd, the hook of which serves to hold a runaway sheep.

Crook (n.) A bishop's staff of office. Cf. Pastoral staff.

Crook (n.) A pothook.

Crook (n.) An artifice; trick; tricky device; subterfuge.

Crook (n.) A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc., to change its pitch or key.

Crook (n.) A person given to fraudulent practices; an accomplice of thieves, forgers, etc.

Crooked (imp. & p. p.) of Crook

Crooking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crook

Crook (n.) To turn from a straight line; to bend; to curve.

Crook (n.) To turn from the path of rectitude; to pervert; to misapply; to twist.

Crook (v. i.) To bend; to curve; to wind; to have a curvature.

Crookback (n.) A crooked back; one who has a crooked or deformed back; a hunchback.

Crookack (a.) Hunched.

Crookbill (n.) A New Zealand plover (Anarhynchus frontalis), remarkable for having the end of the beak abruptly bent to the right.

Crooked (a.) Characterized by a crook or curve; not straight; turning; bent; twisted; deformed.

Crooked (a.) Not straightforward; deviating from rectitude; distorted from the right.

Crooked (a.) False; dishonest; fraudulent; as, crooked dealings.

Crookedly (adv.) In a curved or crooked manner; in a perverse or untoward manner.

Crookedness (n.) The condition or quality of being crooked; hence, deformity of body or of mind; deviation from moral rectitude; perverseness.

Crooken (v. t.) To make crooked.

Crookes tube () A vacuum tube in which the exhaustion is carried to a very high degree, with the production of a distinct class of effects; -- so called from W. Crookes who introduced it.

Croon (v. i.) To make a continuous hollow moan, as cattle do when in pain.

Croon (v. i.) To hum or sing in a low tone; to murmur softly.

Crooned (imp. & p. p.) of Croon

Crooning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Croon

Croon (v. t.) To sing in a low tone, as if to one's self; to hum.

Croon (v. t.) To soothe by singing softly.

Croon (n.) A low, continued moan; a murmur.

Croon (n.) A low singing; a plain, artless melody.

Crop (n.) The pouchlike enlargement of the gullet of birds, serving as a receptacle for food; the craw.

Crop (n.) The top, end, or highest part of anything, especially of a plant or tree.

Crop (n.) That which is cropped, cut, or gathered from a single felld, or of a single kind of grain or fruit, or in a single season; especially, the product of what is planted in the earth; fruit; harvest.

Crop (n.) Grain or other product of the field while standing.

Crop (n.) Anything cut off or gathered.

Crop (n.) Hair cut close or short, or the act or style of so cutting; as, a convict's crop.

Crop (n.) A projecting ornament in carved stone. Specifically, a finial.

Crop (n.) Tin ore prepared for smelting.

Crop (n.) Outcrop of a vein or seam at the surface.

Crop (n.) A riding whip with a loop instead of a lash.

Cropped (imp. & p. p.) of Crop

Cropping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crop

Crop (v. t.) To cut off the tops or tips of; to bite or pull off; to browse; to pluck; to mow; to reap.

Crop (v. t.) Fig.: To cut off, as if in harvest.

Crop (v. t.) To cause to bear a crop; as, to crop a field.

Crop (v. i.) To yield harvest.

Crop-ear (n.) A person or animal whose ears are cropped.

Crop-eared (a.) Having the ears cropped.

Cropful (a.) Having a full crop or belly; satiated.

Cropper (n.) One that crops.

Cropper (n.) A variety of pigeon with a large crop; a pouter.

Cropper (n.) A machine for cropping, as for shearing off bolts or rod iron, or for facing cloth.

Cropper (n.) A fall on one's head when riding at full speed, as in hunting; hence, a sudden failure or collapse.

Cropsick (a.) Sick from excess in eating or drinking.

Crop-tailed (a.) Having the tail cropped.

Croquet (n.) An open-air game in which two or more players endeavor to drive wooden balls, by means of mallets, through a series of hoops or arches set in the ground according to some pattern.

Croquet (n.) The act of croqueting.

Croqueted (imp. & p. p.) of Croquet

Croqueting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Croquet

Croquet (v. t.) In the game of croquet, to drive away an opponent's ball, after putting one's own in contact with it, by striking one's own ball with the mallet.

Cro-quette (n.) A ball of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, highly seasoned, and fried.

Crore (n.) Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly $5,000,000).

Crosier (n.) The pastoral staff of a bishop (also of an archbishop, being the symbol of his office as a shepherd of the flock of God.

Crosiered (a.) Bearing a crosier.

Croslet (n.) See Crosslet.

Cross (n.) A gibbet, consisting of two pieces of timber placed transversely upon one another, in various forms, as a T, or +, with the horizontal piece below the upper end of the upright, or as an X. It was anciently used in the execution of criminals.

Cross (n.) The sign or mark of the cross, made with the finger, or in ink, etc., or actually represented in some material; the symbol of Christ's death; the ensign and chosen symbol of Christianity, of a Christian people, and of Christendom.

Cross (n.) Affiction regarded as a test of patience or virtue; trial; disappointment; opposition; misfortune.

Cross (n.) A piece of money stamped with the figure of a cross, also, that side of such a piece on which the cross is stamped; hence, money in general.

Cross (n.) An appendage or ornament or anything in the form of a cross; a badge or ornamental device of the general shape of a cross; hence, such an ornament, even when varying considerably from that form; thus, the Cross of the British Order of St. George and St. Michael consists of a central medallion with seven arms radiating from it.

Cross (n.) A monument in the form of a cross, or surmounted by a cross, set up in a public place; as, a market cross; a boundary cross; Charing Cross in London.

Cross (n.) A common heraldic bearing, of which there are many varieties. See the Illustration, above.

Cross (n.) The crosslike mark or symbol used instead of a signature by those unable to write.

Cross (n.) Church lands.

Cross (n.) A line drawn across or through another line.

Cross (n.) A mixing of breeds or stock, especially in cattle breeding; or the product of such intermixture; a hybrid of any kind.

Cross (n.) An instrument for laying of offsets perpendicular to the main course.

Cross (n.) A pipe-fitting with four branches the axes of which usually form's right angle.

Cross (a.) Not parallel; lying or falling athwart; transverse; oblique; intersecting.

Cross (a.) Not accordant with what is wished or expected; interrupting; adverse; contrary; thwarting; perverse.

Cross (a.) Characterized by, or in a state of, peevishness, fretfulness, or ill humor; as, a cross man or woman.

Cross (a.) Made in an opposite direction, or an inverse relation; mutually inverse; interchanged; as, cross interrogatories; cross marriages, as when a brother and sister marry persons standing in the same relation to each other.

Cross (prep.) Athwart; across.

Crossed (imp. & p. p.) of Cross

Crossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cross

Cross (v. t.) To put across or athwart; to cause to intersect; as, to cross the arms.

Cross (v. t.) To lay or draw something, as a line, across; as, to cross the letter t.

Cross (v. t.) To pass from one side to the other of; to pass or move over; to traverse; as, to cross a stream.

Cross (v. t.) To pass, as objects going in an opposite direction at the same time.

Cross (v. t.) To run counter to; to thwart; to obstruct; to hinder; to clash or interfere with.

Cross (v. t.) To interfere and cut off; to debar.

Cross (v. t.) To make the sign of the cross upon; -- followed by the reflexive pronoun; as, he crossed himself.

Cross (v. t.) To cancel by marking crosses on or over, or drawing a line across; to erase; -- usually with out, off, or over; as, to cross out a name.

Cross (v. t.) To cause to interbreed; -- said of different stocks or races; to mix the breed of.

Cross (v. i.) To lie or be athwart.

Cross (v. i.) To move or pass from one side to the other, or from place to place; to make a transit; as, to cross from New York to Liverpool.

Cross (v. i.) To be inconsistent.

Cross (v. i.) To interbreed, as races; to mix distinct breeds.

Cross-armed (a.) With arms crossed.

Cross-banded (a.) A term used when a narrow ribbon of veneer is inserted into the surface of any piece of furniture, wainscoting, etc., so that the grain of it is contrary to the general surface.

Crossbar (n.) A transverse bar or piece, as a bar across a door, or as the iron bar or stock which passes through the shank of an anchor to insure its turning fluke down.

Crossbarred (a.) Secured by, or furnished with, crossbars.

Crossbarred (a.) Made or patterned in lines crossing each other; as, crossbarred muslin.

Crossbeak (n.) Same as Crossbill.

Crossbeam (n.) A girder.

Crossbeam (n.) A beam laid across the bitts, to which the cable is fastened when riding at anchor.

Cross-bearer (n.) A subdeacon who bears a cross before an archbishop or primate on solemn occasions.

Crossbill () A bill brought by a defendant, in an equity or chancery suit, against the plaintiff, respecting the matter in question in that suit.

Crossbill (n.) A bird of the genus Loxia, allied to the finches. Their mandibles are strongly curved and cross each other; the crossbeak.

Cross-birth (n.) Any preternatural labor, in which the body of the child lies across the pelvis of the mother, so that the shoulder, arm, or trunk is the part first presented at the mouth of the uterus.

Crossbite (n.) A deception; a cheat.

Crossbite (b. t.) To deceive; to trick; to gull.

Crossbones (n. pl.) A representation of two of the leg bones or arm bones of a skeleton, laid crosswise, often surmounted with a skull, and serving as a symbol of death.

Crossbow (n.) A weapon, used in discharging arrows, formed by placing a bow crosswise on a stock.

Crossbower (n.) A crossbowman.

Crossbowman (n.) One who shoots with a crossbow. See Arbalest.

Crossbred (a.) Produced by mixing distinct breeds; mongrel.

Crossbreed (n.) A breed or an animal produced from parents of different breeds; a new variety, as of plants, combining the qualities of two parent varieties or stocks.

Crossbreed (n.) Anything partaking of the natures of two different things; a hybrid.

Cross-bun (n.) A bun or cake marked with a cross, and intended to be eaten on Good Friday.

Cross-crosslet (n.) A cross having the three upper ends crossed, so as to from three small crosses.

Crosscut (v. t.) To cut across or through; to intersect.

Crosscut (n.) A short cut across; a path shorter than by the high road.

Crosscut (n.) A level driven across the course of a vein, or across the main workings, as from one gangway to another.

Cross-days (n. pl.) The three days preceding the Feast of the Ascension.

Crossette (n.) A return in one of the corners of the architrave of a door or window; -- called also ancon, ear, elbow.

Crossette (n.) The shoulder of a joggled keystone.

Cross-examination (n.) The interrogating or questioning of a witness by the party against whom he has been called and examined. See Examination.

Cross-examined (imp. & p. p.) of Cross-examine

Cross-examining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cross-examine

Cross-examine (v. t.) To examine or question, as a witness who has been called and examined by the opposite party.

Cross-examiner (n.) One who cross-examines or conducts a crosse-examination.

Cross-eye (n.) See Strabismus.

Cross-eyed (a.) Affected with strabismus; squint-eyed; squinting.

Crossfish (n.) A starfish.

Crossflow (v. i.) To flow across, or in a contrary direction.

Cross-garnet (n.) A hinge having one strap perpendicular and the other strap horizontal giving it the form of an Egyptian or T cross.

Crossgrained (a.) Having the grain or fibers run diagonally, or more or less transversely an irregularly, so as to interfere with splitting or planing.

Crossgrained (a.) Perverse; untractable; contrary.

Crossnath (v. t.) To shade by means of crosshatching.

Crosshatching (n.) In drawing and line engraving, shading with lines that cross one another at an angle.

Crosshead (n.) A beam or bar across the head or end of a rod, etc., or a block attached to it and carrying a knuckle pin; as the solid crosspiece running between parallel slides, which receives motion from the piston of a steam engine and imparts it to the connecting rod, which is hinged to the crosshead.

Crossing (v. t.) The act by which anything is crossed; as, the crossing of the ocean.

Crossing (v. t.) The act of making the sign of the cross.

Crossing (v. t.) The act of interbreeding; a mixing of breeds.

Crossing (v. t.) Intersection, as of two paths or roads.

Crossing (v. t.) A place where anything (as a stream) is crossed; a paved walk across a street.

Crossing (v. t.) Contradiction; thwarting; obstruction.

Crossjack (n.) The lowest square sail, or the lower yard of the mizzenmast.

CRosslegged (a.) Having the legs crossed.

Crosslet (n.) A small cross.

Crosslet (n.) A crucible.

Crosslet (a.) Crossed again; -- said of a cross the arms of which are crossed. SeeCross-crosslet.

Crossly (adv.) Athwart; adversely; unfortunately; peevishly; fretfully; with ill humor.

Crossness (n.) The quality or state of being cross; peevishness; fretfulness; ill humor.

Crossopterygian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Crossopterygii.

Crossopterygian (n.) One of the Crossopterygii.

Crossopterygii (n. pl.) An order of ganoid fishes including among living species the bichir (Polypterus). See Brachioganoidei.

Crosspatch (n.) An ill-natured person.

Cross-pawl (n.) Same as Cross-spale.

Crosspiece (n.) A piece of any structure which is fitted or framed crosswise.

Crosspiece (n.) A bar or timber connecting two knightheads or two bitts.

Cross-purpose (n.) A counter or opposing purpose; hence, that which is inconsistent or contradictory.

Cross-purpose (n.) A conversational game, in which questions and answers are made so as to involve ludicrous combinations of ideas.

Cross-questioned (imp. & p. p.) of Cross-question

Cross-questioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cross-question

Cross-question (v. t.) To cross-examine; to subject to close questioning.

Cross-reading (n.) The reading of the lines of a newspaper directly across the page, instead of down the columns, thus producing a ludicrous combination of ideas.

Crossroad (n.) A road that crosses another; an obscure road intersecting or avoiding the main road.

Crossrow (n.) The alphabet; -- called also Christcross-row.

Crossrow (n.) A row that crosses others.

Crossruff (n.) The play in whist where partners trump each a different suit, and lead to each other for that purpose; -- called also seesaw.

Cross-spale (n.) Alt. of Cross-spall

Cross-spall (n.) One of the temporary wooden braces, placed horizontally across a frame to hold it in position until the deck beams are in; a cross-pawl.

Cross-springer (n.) One of the ribs in a groined arch, springing from the corners in a diagonal direction. [See Illustr. of Groined vault.]

Cross-staff (n.) An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of celestial bodies.

Cross-staff (n.) A surveyor's instrument for measuring offsets.

Cross-stitch (n.) A form of stitch, where the stitches are diagonal and in pairs, the thread of one stitch crossing that of the other.

Cross-stone (n.) See Harmotome, and Staurotide.

Cross-tail (n.) A bar connecting the ends of the side rods or levers of a backaction or side-lever engine.

Cross-tie (n.) A sleeper supporting and connecting the rails, and holding them in place.

Cross-tining (n.) A mode of harrowing crosswise, or transversely to the ridges.

Crosstrees (n. pl.) Pieces of timber at a masthead, to which are attached the upper shrouds. At the head of lower masts in large vessels, they support a semicircular platform called the top.

Cross-vaulting (n.) Vaulting formed by the intersection of two or more simple vaults.

Crossway (n.) See Crossroad.

Cross-week (n.) Rogation week, when the cross was borne in processions.

Crosswise (adv.) In the form of a cross; across; transversely.

Crosswort (n.) A name given to several inconspicuous plants having leaves in whorls of four, as species of Crucianella, Valantia, etc.

Crotalaria (n.) A genus of leguminous plants; rattlebox.

Crotaline (a.) Resembling, or pertaining to, the Crotalidae, or Rattlesnake family.

Crotalo (n.) A Turkish musical instrument.

Crotalum (n.) A kind of castanet used by the Corybantes.

Crotalus (n.) A genus of poisonous serpents, including the rattlesnakes.

Crotaphite (n.) The temple or temporal fossa. Also used adjectively.

Crotaphitic (n.) Pertaining to the temple; temporal.

Crotches (pl. ) of Crotch

Crotch (n.) The angle formed by the parting of two legs or branches; a fork; the point where a trunk divides; as, the crotch of a tree.

Crotch (n.) A stanchion or post of wood or iron, with two arms for supporting a boom, spare yards, etc.; -- called also crane and crutch.

Crotched (a.) Having a crotch; forked.

Crotched (a.) Cross; peevish.

Crotchet (n.) A forked support; a crotch.

Crotchet (n.) A time note, with a stem, having one fourth the value of a semibreve, one half that of a minim, and twice that of a quaver; a quarter note.

Crotchet (n.) An indentation in the glacis of the covered way, at a point where a traverse is placed.

Crotchet (n.) The arrangement of a body of troops, either forward or rearward, so as to form a line nearly perpendicular to the general line of battle.

Crotchet (n.) A bracket. See Bracket.

Crotchet (n.) An instrument of a hooked form, used in certain cases in the extraction of a fetus.

Crotchet (n.) A perverse fancy; a whim which takes possession of the mind; a conceit.

Crotchet (v. i.) To play music in measured time.

Crotcheted (a.) Marked or measured by crotchets; having musical notation.

Crotchetiness (n.) The state or character of being crotchety, or whimsical.

Crotchety (a.) Given to crotchets; subject to whims; as, a crotchety man.

Croton (n.) A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropical countries.

Croton bug () A small, active, winged species of cockroach (Ectobia Germanica), the water bug. It is common aboard ships, and in houses in cities, esp. in those with hot-water pipes.

Crotonic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or derived from, a plant of the genus Croton, or from croton oil.

Crotonine (n.) A supposed alkaloid obtained from croton oil by boiling it with water and magnesia, since found to be merely a magnesia soap of the oil.

Crotonylene (n.) A colorless, volatile, pungent liquid, C4H6, produced artificially, and regarded as an unsaturated hydrocarbon of the acetylene series, and analogous to crotonic acid.

Crottles (n. pl.) A name given to various lichens gathered for dyeing.

Crouched (imp. & p. p.) of Crouch

Crouching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crouch

Crouch (v. i.) To bend down; to stoop low; to lie close to the ground with the logs bent, as an animal when waiting for prey, or in fear.

Crouch (v. i.) To bend servilely; to stoop meanly; to fawn; to cringe.

Crouch (v. t.) To sign with the cross; to bless.

Crouch (v. t.) To bend, or cause to bend, as in humility or fear.

Crouched (a.) Marked with the sign of the cross.

Croud (n.) See Crowd, a violin.

Crouke (n.) A crock; a jar.

Croup (n.) The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especially of a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle.

Croup (n.) An inflammatory affection of the larynx or trachea, accompanied by a hoarse, ringing cough and stridulous, difficult breathing; esp., such an affection when associated with the development of a false membrane in the air passages (also called membranous croup). See False croup, under False, and Diphtheria.

Croupade (n.) A leap in which the horse pulls up his hind legs toward his belly.

Croupal (a.) Croupy.

Crouper (n.) See Crupper.

Croupier (n.) One who presides at a gaming table and collects the stakes.

Croupier (n.) One who, at a public dinner party, sits at the lower end of the table as assistant chairman.

Croupous (a.) Relating to or resembling croup; especially, attended with the formation of a deposit or membrane like that found in membranous croup; as, croupous laryngitis.

Croupy (a.) Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as, a croupy cough.

Crouse (a.) Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent.

Croustade (n.) Bread baked in a mold, and scooped out, to serve minces upon.

Crout (n.) See Sourkrout.

Crouton (n.) Bread cut in various forms, and fried lightly in butter or oil, to garnish hashes, etc.

Crew (imp.) of Crow

Crowed () of Crow

Crowed (p. p.) of Crow

Crown () of Crow

Crowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crow

Crow (v. i.) To make the shrill sound characteristic of a cock, either in joy, gayety, or defiance.

Crow (v. i.) To shout in exultation or defiance; to brag.

Crow (v. i.) To utter a sound expressive of joy or pleasure.

Crow (v. i.) A bird, usually black, of the genus Corvus, having a strong conical beak, with projecting bristles. It has a harsh, croaking note. See Caw.

Crow (v. i.) A bar of iron with a beak, crook, or claw; a bar of iron used as a lever; a crowbar.

Crow (v. i.) The cry of the cock. See Crow, v. i., 1.

Crow (v. i.) The mesentery of a beast; -- so called by butchers.

Crowbar (n.) A bar of iron sharpened at one end, and used as a lever.

Crowberry (n.) A heathlike plant of the genus Empetrum, and its fruit, a black, scarcely edible berry; -- also called crakeberry.

Crowded (imp. & p. p.) of Crowd

Crowding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crowd

Crowd (v. t.) To push, to press, to shove.

Crowd (v. t.) To press or drive together; to mass together.

Crowd (v. t.) To fill by pressing or thronging together; hence, to encumber by excess of numbers or quantity.

Crowd (v. t.) To press by solicitation; to urge; to dun; hence, to treat discourteously or unreasonably.

Crowd (v. i.) To press together or collect in numbers; to swarm; to throng.

Crowd (v. i.) To urge or press forward; to force one's self; as, a man crowds into a room.

Crowd (v. t.) A number of things collected or closely pressed together; also, a number of things adjacent to each other.

Crowd (v. t.) A number of persons congregated or collected into a close body without order; a throng.

Crowd (v. t.) The lower orders of people; the populace; the vulgar; the rabble; the mob.

Crowd (n.) An ancient instrument of music with six strings; a kind of violin, being the oldest known stringed instrument played with a bow.

Crowd (v. t.) To play on a crowd; to fiddle.

Crowder (n.) One who plays on a crowd; a fiddler.

Crowder (n.) One who crowds or pushes.

Crowdy (n.) A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of the porridge kind.

Crowflower (n.) A kind of campion; according to Gerarde, the Lychnis Flos-cuculi.

Crowfoot (n.) The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds, others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.

Crowfoot (n.) A number of small cords rove through a long block, or euphroe, to suspend an awning by.

Crowfoot (n.) A caltrop.

Crowfoot (n.) A tool with a side claw for recovering broken rods, etc.

Crowkeeper (n.) A person employed to scare off crows; hence, a scarecrow.

Crown () p. p. of Crow.

Crown (n.) A wreath or garland, or any ornamental fillet encircling the head, especially as a reward of victory or mark of honorable distinction; hence, anything given on account of, or obtained by, faithful or successful effort; a reward.

Crown (n.) A royal headdress or cap of sovereignty, worn by emperors, kings, princes, etc.

Crown (n.) The person entitled to wear a regal or imperial crown; the sovereign; -- with the definite article.

Crown (n.) Imperial or regal power or dominion; sovereignty.

Crown (n.) Anything which imparts beauty, splendor, honor, dignity, or finish.

Crown (n.) Highest state; acme; consummation; perfection.

Crown (n.) The topmost part of anything; the summit.

Crown (n.) The topmost part of the head (see Illust. of Bird.); that part of the head from which the hair descends toward the sides and back; also, the head or brain.

Crown (n.) The part of a hat above the brim.

Crown (n.) The part of a tooth which projects above the gum; also, the top or grinding surface of a tooth.

Crown (n.) The vertex or top of an arch; -- applied generally to about one third of the curve, but in a pointed arch to the apex only.

Crown (n.) Same as Corona.

Crown (n.) That part of an anchor where the arms are joined to the shank.

Crown (n.) The rounding, or rounded part, of the deck from a level line.

Crown (n.) The bights formed by the several turns of a cable.

Crown (n.) The upper range of facets in a rose diamond.

Crown (n.) The dome of a furnace.

Crown (n.) The area inclosed between two concentric perimeters.

Crown (n.) A round spot shaved clean on the top of the head, as a mark of the clerical state; the tonsure.

Crown (n.) A size of writing paper. See under Paper.

Crown (n.) A coin stamped with the image of a crown; hence,a denomination of money; as, the English crown, a silver coin of the value of five shillings sterling, or a little more than $1.20; the Danish or Norwegian crown, a money of account, etc., worth nearly twenty-seven cents.

Crown (n.) An ornaments or decoration representing a crown; as, the paper is stamped with a crown.

Crowned (imp. & p. p.) of Crown

Crowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crown

Crown (n.) To cover, decorate, or invest with a crown; hence, to invest with royal dignity and power.

Crown (n.) To bestow something upon as a mark of honor, dignity, or recompense; to adorn; to dignify.

Crown (n.) To form the topmost or finishing part of; to complete; to consummate; to perfect.

Crown (n.) To cause to round upward; to make anything higher at the middle than at the edges, as the face of a machine pulley.

Crown (n.) To effect a lodgment upon, as upon the crest of the glacis, or the summit of the breach.

Crowned (p. p. & a.) Having or wearing a crown; surmounted, invested, or adorned, with a crown, wreath, garland, etc.; honored; rewarded; completed; consummated; perfected.

Crowned (p. p. & a.) Great; excessive; supreme.

Crowner (n.) One who, or that which, crowns.

Crowner (n.) A coroner.

Crownet (n.) A coronet.

Crownet (n.) The ultimate end and result of an undertaking; a chief end.

Crown-imperial (n.) A spring-blooming plant (Fritillaria imperialis) of the Lily family, having at the top of the stalk a cluster of pendent bell-shaped flowers surmounted with a tuft of green leaves.

Crownless (a.) Without a crown.

Crownlet (n.) A coronet.

Crown office () The criminal branch of the Court of King's or Queen's Bench, commonly called the crown side of the court, which takes cognizance of all criminal cases.

Crownpiece (n.) A piece or part which passes over the head, as in a bridle.

Crownpiece (n.) A coin [In sense (b) properly crown piece.] See Crown, 19.

Crown-post (n.) Same as King-post.

Crown-saw (n.) A saw in the form of a hollow cylinder, with teeth on the end or edge, and operated by a rotative motion.

Crown side () See Crown office.

Crown wheel () A wheel with cogs or teeth set at right angles to its plane; -- called also a contrate wheel or face wheel.

Crownwork (n.) A work consisting of two or more bastioned fronts, with their outworks, covering an enceinte, a bridgehead, etc., and connected by wings with the main work or the river bank.

Crow-quill (n.) A quill of the crow, or a very fine pen made from such a quill.

Crows (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; -- also called Upsarokas.

Crow's-feet (pl. ) of Crow's-foot

Crow's-foot (n.) The wrinkles that appear, as the effect of age or dissipation, under and around the outer corners of the eyes.

Crow's-foot (n.) A caltrop.

Crow's-foot (n.) Same as Bird's-mouth.

Crow-silk (n.) A filamentous fresh-water alga (Conferva rivularis of Linnaeus, Rhizoclonium rivulare of Kutzing).

Crow's-nest (n.) A box or perch near the top of a mast, esp. in whalers, to shelter the man on the lookout.

Crowstep (n.) See Corriestep.

Crowstone (n.) The top stone of the gable end of a house.

Crowth (n.) An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd.

Crowtoe (n.) The Lotus corniculatus.

Crowtoe (n.) An unidentified plant, probably the crowfoot.

Crow-trodden (a.) Marked with crow's-feet, or wrinkles, about the eyes.

Croylstone (n.) Crystallized cawk, in which the crystals are small.

Croys (n.) See Cross, n.

Croze (n.) A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks, etc.; also, the groove itself.

Crozier (n.) See Crosier.

Croziered (a.) Crosiered.

Crucial (a.) Having the form of a cross; appertaining to a cross; cruciform; intersecting; as, crucial ligaments; a crucial incision.

Crucial (a.) Severe; trying or searching, as if bringing to the cross; decisive; as, a crucial test.

Crucian carp () A kind of European carp (Carasius vulgaris), inferior to the common carp; -- called also German carp.

Cruciate (a.) Tormented.

Cruciate (a.) Having the leaves or petals arranged in the form of a cross; cruciform.

Cruciate (v. t.) To torture; to torment. [Obs.] See Excruciate.

Cruciation (n.) The act of torturing; torture; torment.

Crucible (n.) A vessel or melting pot, composed of some very refractory substance, as clay, graphite, platinum, and used for melting and calcining substances which require a strong degree of heat, as metals, ores, etc.

Crucible (n.) A hollow place at the bottom of a furnace, to receive the melted metal.

Crucible (n.) A test of the most decisive kind; a severe trial; as, the crucible of affliction.

Crucifer (n.) Any plant of the order Cruciferae.

Cruciferous (a.) Bearing a cross.

Cruciferous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants which have four petals arranged like the arms of a cross, as the mustard, radish, turnip, etc.

Crucifier (n.) One who crucifies; one who subjects himself or another to a painful trial.

Crucifixes (pl. ) of Crucifix

Crucifix (n.) A representation in art of the figure of Christ upon the cross; esp., the sculptured figure affixed to a real cross of wood, ivory, metal, or the like, used by the Roman Catholics in their devotions.

Crucifix (n.) The cross or religion of Christ.

Crucifixion (n.) The act of nailing or fastening a person to a cross, for the purpose of putting him to death; the use of the cross as a method of capital punishment.

Crucifixion (n.) The state of one who is nailed or fastened to a cross; death upon a cross.

Crucifixion (n.) Intense suffering or affliction; painful trial.

Cruciform (a.) Cross-shaped; (Bot.) having four parts arranged in the form of a cross.

Crucified (imp. & p. p.) of Crucify

Crucifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crucify

Crucify (v. t.) To fasten to a cross; to put to death by nailing the hands and feet to a cross or gibbet.

Crucify (v. t.) To destroy the power or ruling influence of; to subdue completely; to mortify.

Crucify (v. t.) To vex or torment.

Crucigerous (a.) Bearing the cross; marked with the figure of a cross.

Crud (n.) See Curd.

Cruddle (v. i.) To curdle.

Crude (superl.) In its natural state; not cooked or prepared by fire or heat; undressed; not altered, refined, or prepared for use by any artificial process; raw; as, crude flesh.

Crude (superl.) Unripe; not mature or perfect; immature.

Crude (superl.) Not reduced to order or form; unfinished; not arranged or prepared; ill-considered; immature.

Crude (superl.) Undigested; unconcocted; not brought into a form to give nourishment.

Crude (superl.) Having, or displaying, superficial and undigested knowledge; without culture or profundity; as, a crude reasoner.

Crude (superl.) Harsh and offensive, as a color; tawdry or in bad taste, as a combination of colors, or any design or work of art.

Crudely (adv.) In a crude, immature manner.

Crudeness (n.) A crude, undigested, or unprepared state; rawness; unripeness; immatureness; unfitness for a destined use or purpose; as, the crudeness of iron ore; crudeness of theories or plans.

Crudities (pl. ) of Crudity

Crudity (n.) The condition of being crude; rawness.

Crudity (n.) That which is in a crude or undigested state; hence, superficial, undigested views, not reduced to order or form.

Crudle (v. i.) See Cruddle.

Crudy (a.) Coagulated.

Crudy (a.) Characterized by crudeness; raw.

Cruel (n.) See Crewel.

Cruel (a.) Disposed to give pain to others; willing or pleased to hurt, torment, or afflict; destitute of sympathetic kindness and pity; savage; inhuman; hard-hearted; merciless.

Cruel (a.) Causing, or fitted to cause, pain, grief, or misery.

Cruel (a.) Attended with cruetly; painful; harsh.

Cruelly (adv.) In a cruel manner.

Cruelly (adv.) Extremely; very.

Cruelness (n.) Cruelty.

Cruels (n. pl.) Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck.

Cruelties (pl. ) of Cruelty

Cruelty (n.) The attribute or quality of being cruel; a disposition to give unnecessary pain or suffering to others; inhumanity; barbarity.

Cruelty (n.) A cruel and barbarous deed; inhuman treatment; the act of willfully causing unnecessary pain.

Cruentate (a.) Smeared with blood.

Cruentous (a.) Bloody; cruentate.

Cruet (n.) A bottle or vessel; esp., a vial or small glass bottle for holding vinegar, oil, pepper, or the like, for the table; a caster.

Cruet (n.) A vessel used to hold wine, oil, or water for the service of the altar.

Cruise (n.) See Cruse, a small bottle.

Cruised (imp. & p. p.) of Cruise

Cruising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cruise

Cruise (v. i.) To sail back and forth on the ocean; to sail, as for the potection of commerce, in search of an enemy, for plunder, or for pleasure.

Cruise (v. i.) To wander hither and thither on land.

Cruise (n.) A voyage made in various directions, as of an armed vessel, for the protection of other vessels, or in search of an enemy; a sailing to and fro, as for exploration or for pleasure.

Cruiser (n.) One who, or a vessel that, cruises; -- usually an armed vessel.

Cruive (n.) A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel.

Crull (a.) Curly; curled.

Cruller (n.) A kind of sweet cake cut in strips and curled or twisted, and fried crisp in boiling fat.

Crumb (n.) A small fragment or piece; especially, a small piece of bread or other food, broken or cut off.

Crumb (n.) Fig.: A little; a bit; as, a crumb of comfort.

Crumb (n.) The soft part of bread.

Crumbed (imp. & p. p.) of Crumb

Crumbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crumb

Crumb (v. t.) To break into crumbs or small pieces with the fingers; as, to crumb bread.

Crumbcloth (n.) A cloth to be laid under a dining table to receive falling fragments, and keep the carpet or floor clean.

Crumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Crumble

Crumbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crumble

Crumble (v. t.) To break into small pieces; to cause to fall in pieces.

Crumble (v. i.) To fall into small pieces; to break or part into small fragments; hence, to fall to decay or ruin; to become disintegrated; to perish.

Crumbly (a.) EAsily crumbled; friable; brittle.

Crumenal (n.) A purse.

Crummable (a.) Capable of being crumbed or broken into small pieces.

Crummy (a.) Full of crumb or crumbs.

Crummy (a.) Soft, as the crumb of bread is; not crusty.

Crump (a.) Crooked; bent.

Crump (a.) Hard or crusty; dry baked; as, a crump loaf.

Crumpet (n.) A kind of large, thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, and cooked on a griddle or spider.

Crumpled (imp. & p. p.) of Crumple

Crumpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crumple

Crumple (v. t.) To draw or press into wrinkles or folds; to crush together; to rumple; as, to crumple paper.

Crumple (v. i.) To contract irregularly; to show wrinkles after being crushed together; as, leaves crumple.

Crumpy (a.) Brittle; crisp.

Crunched (imp. & p. p.) of Crunch

Crunching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crunch

Crunch (v. i.) To chew with force and noise; to craunch.

Crunch (v. i.) To grind or press with violence and noise.

Crunch (v. i.) To emit a grinding or craunching noise.

Crunch (v. t.) To crush with the teeth; to chew with a grinding noise; to craunch; as, to crunch a biscuit.

Crunk (v. i.) Alt. of Crunkle

Crunkle (v. i.) To cry like a crane.

Crunodal (a.) Possessing, or characterized by, a crunode; -- used of curves.

Crunode (n.) A point where one branch of a curve crosses another branch. See Double point, under Double, a.

Cruor (n.) The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion of coagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore.

Cruorin (n.) The coloring matter of the blood in the living animal; haemoglobin.

Crup (a.) Short; brittle; as, crup cake.

Crup (n.) See Croup, the rump of a horse.

Crupper (n.) The buttocks or rump of a horse.

Crupper (n.) A leather loop, passing under a horse's tail, and buckled to the saddle to keep it from slipping forwards.

Crupper (v. t.) To fit with a crupper; to place a crupper upon; as, to crupper a horse.

Crura (n. pl.) See Crus.

Crural (a.) Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the parts called crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal; crural ring.

Crura (pl. ) of Crus

Crus (n.) That part of the hind limb between the femur, or thigh, and the ankle, or tarsus; the shank.

Crus (n.) Often applied, especially in the plural, to parts which are supposed to resemble a pair of legs; as, the crura of the diaphragm, a pair of muscles attached to it; crura cerebri, two bundles of nerve fibers in the base of the brain, connecting the medulla and the forebrain.

Crusade (n.) Any one of the military expeditions undertaken by Christian powers, in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries, for the recovery of the Holy Land from the Mohammedans.

Crusade (n.) Any enterprise undertaken with zeal and enthusiasm; as, a crusade against intemperance.

Crusade (n.) A Portuguese coin. See Crusado.

Crusaded (imp. & p. p.) of Crusade

Crusading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crusade

Crusade (v. i.) To engage in a crusade; to attack in a zealous or hot-headed manner.

Crusader (n.) One engaged in a crusade; as, the crusaders of the Middle Ages.

Crusading (a.) Of or pertaining to a crusade; as, a crusading spirit.

Crusado (n.) An old Portuguese coin, worth about seventy cents.

Cruse (n.) A cup or dish.

Cruse (n.) A bottle for holding water, oil, honey, etc.

Cruset (n.) A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot.

Crushed (imp. & p. p.) of Crush

Crushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crush

Crush (v. t.) To press or bruise between two hard bodies; to squeeze, so as to destroy the natural shape or integrity of the parts, or to force together into a mass; as, to crush grapes.

Crush (v. t.) To reduce to fine particles by pounding or grinding; to comminute; as, to crush quartz.

Crush (v. t.) To overwhelm by pressure or weight; to beat or force down, as by an incumbent weight.

Crush (v. t.) To oppress or burden grievously.

Crush (v. t.) To overcome completely; to subdue totally.

Crush (v. i.) To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smaller compass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes easily.

Crush (n.) A violent collision or compression; a crash; destruction; ruin.

Crush (n.) Violent pressure, as of a crowd; a crowd which produced uncomfortable pressure; as, a crush at a peception.

Crusher (n.) One who, or that which, crushes.

Crushing (a.) That crushes; overwhelming.

Crust (n.) The hard external coat or covering of anything; the hard exterior surface or outer shell; an incrustation; as, a crust of snow.

Crust (n.) The hard exterior or surface of bread, in distinction from the soft part or crumb; or a piece of bread grown dry or hard.

Crust (n.) The cover or case of a pie, in distinction from the soft contents.

Crust (n.) The dough, or mass of doughy paste, cooked with a potpie; -- also called dumpling.

Crust (n.) The exterior portion of the earth, formerly universally supposed to inclose a molten interior.

Crust (n.) The shell of crabs, lobsters, etc.

Crust (n.) A hard mass, made up of dried secretions blood, or pus, occurring upon the surface of the body.

Crust (n.) An incrustation on the interior of wine bottles, the result of the ripening of the wine; a deposit of tartar, etc. See Beeswing.

Crusted (imp. & p. p.) of Crust

Crusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crust

Crust (n.) To cover with a crust; to cover or line with an incrustation; to incrust.

Crust (v. i.) To gather or contract into a hard crust; to become incrusted.

Crusta (n.) A crust or shell.

Crusta (n.) A gem engraved, or a plate embossed in low relief, for inlaying a vase or other object.

Crustacea (n. pl.) One of the classes of the arthropods, including lobsters and crabs; -- so called from the crustlike shell with which they are covered.

Crustacean (a.) Of or pertaining to the Crustacea; crustaceous.

Crustacean (n.) An animal belonging to the class Crustacea.

Crustaceological (a.) Pertaining to crustaceology.

Crustaceologist (n.) One versed in crustaceology; a crustalogist.

Crustaceology (n.) That branch of Zoology which treats of the Crustacea; malacostracology; carcinology.

Crustaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, crust or shell; having a crustlike shell.

Crustaceous (a.) Belonging to the Crustacea; crustacean.

Crustaceousness (n.) The state or quality of being crustaceous or having a crustlike shell.

Crustal (a.) Relating to a crust.

Crustalogical (a.) Pertaining to crustalogy.

Crustalogist (n.) One versed in crustalogy.

Crustalogy (n.) Crustaceology.

Crustated (a.) Covered with a crust; as, crustated basalt.

Crustation (n.) An adherent crust; an incrustation.

Crusted (a.) Incrusted; covered with, or containing, crust; as, old, crusted port wine.

Crustific (a.) Producing or forming a crust or skin.

Crustily (adv.) In a crusty or surly manner; morosely.

Crustiness (n.) The state or quality of having crust or being like crust; hardness.

Crustiness (n.) The quality of being crusty or surly.

Crusty (a.) Having the nature of crust; pertaining to a hard covering; as, a crusty coat; a crusty surface or substance.

Crusty (a.) Having a hard exterior, or a short, rough manner, though kind at heart; snappish; peevish; surly.

Crut (n.) The rough, shaggy part of oak bark.

Crutches (pl. ) of Crutch

Crutch (n.) A staff with a crosspiece at the head, to be placed under the arm or shoulder, to support the lame or infirm in walking.

Crutch (n.) A form of pommel for a woman's saddle, consisting of a forked rest to hold the leg of the rider.

Crutch (n.) A knee, or piece of knee timber

Crutch (n.) A forked stanchion or post; a crotch. See Crotch.

Crutch (v. t.) To support on crutches; to prop up.

Crutched (a.) Supported upon crutches.

Crutched (a.) Marked with the sign of the cross; crouched.

Cruth (n.) See 4th Crowd.

Cruxes (pl. ) of Crux

Cruces (pl. ) of Crux

Crux (n.) Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain.

Cruzado (n.) A coin. See Crusado.

Crwth (n.) See 4th Crowd.

Cried (imp. & p. p.) of Cry

Crying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cry

Cry (v. i.) To make a loud call or cry; to call or exclaim vehemently or earnestly; to shout; to vociferate; to proclaim; to pray; to implore.

Cry (v. i.) To utter lamentations; to lament audibly; to express pain, grief, or distress, by weeping and sobbing; to shed tears; to bawl, as a child.

Cry (v. i.) To utter inarticulate sounds, as animals.

Cry (v. t.) To utter loudly; to call out; to shout; to sound abroad; to declare publicly.

Cry (v. t.) To cause to do something, or bring to some state, by crying or weeping; as, to cry one's self to sleep.

Cry (v. t.) To make oral and public proclamation of; to declare publicly; to notify or advertise by outcry, especially things lost or found, goods to be sold, ets.; as, to cry goods, etc.

Cry (v. t.) to publish the banns of, as for marriage.

Cries (pl. ) of Cry

Cry (v. i.) A loud utterance; especially, the inarticulate sound produced by one of the lower animals; as, the cry of hounds; the cry of wolves.

Cry (v. i.) Outcry; clamor; tumult; popular demand.

Cry (v. i.) Any expression of grief, distress, etc., accompanied with tears or sobs; a loud sound, uttered in lamentation.

Cry (v. i.) Loud expression of triumph or wonder or of popular acclamation or favor.

Cry (v. i.) Importunate supplication.

Cry (v. i.) Public advertisement by outcry; proclamation, as by hawkers of their wares.

Cry (v. i.) Common report; fame.

Cry (v. i.) A word or phrase caught up by a party or faction and repeated for effect; as, the party cry of the Tories.

Cry (v. i.) A pack of hounds.

Cry (v. i.) A pack or company of persons; -- in contempt.

Cry (v. i.) The crackling noise made by block tin when it is bent back and forth.

Cryal (n.) The heron

Cryer (n.) The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil.

Crying (a.) Calling for notice; compelling attention; notorious; heinous; as, a crying evil.

Cryohydrate (n.) A substance, as salt, ammonium chloride, etc., which crystallizes with water of crystallization only at low temperatures, or below the freezing point of water.

Cryolite (n.) A fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in white cleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina.

Cryophorus (n.) An instrument used to illustrate the freezing of water by its own evaporation. The ordinary form consists of two glass bulbs, connected by a tube of the same material, and containing only a quantity of water and its vapor, devoid of air. The water is in one of the bulbs, and freezes when the other is cooled below 32 Fahr.

Crypt (n.) A vault wholly or partly under ground; especially, a vault under a church, whether used for burial purposes or for a subterranean chapel or oratory.

Crypt (n.) A simple gland, glandular cavity, or tube; a follicle; as, the crypts of Lieberk/hn, the simple tubular glands of the small intestines.

Cryptal (a.) Of or pertaining to crypts.

Cryptic (a.) Alt. of Cryptical

Cryptical (a.) Hidden; secret; occult.

Cryptically (adv.) Secretly; occultly.

Cryptidine (n.) One of the quinoline bases, obtained from coal tar as an oily liquid, C11H11N; also, any one of several substances metameric with, and resembling, cryptidine proper.

Cryptobranchiata (n. pl.) A division of the Amphibia; the Derotremata.

Cryptobranchiata (n. pl.) A group of nudibranch mollusks.

Cryptobranchiate (a.) Having concealed or rudimentary gills.

Cryptocrystalline (a.) Indistinctly crystalline; -- applied to rocks and minerals, whose state of aggregation is so fine that no distinct particles are visible, even under the microscope.

Cryptogam (n.) A plant belonging to the Cryptogamia.

Cryptogamiae (pl. ) of Cryptogamia

Cryptogamia (n.) The series or division of flowerless plants, or those never having true stamens and pistils, but propagated by spores of various kinds.

Cryptogamian (a.) Alt. of Cryptogamous

Cryptogamic (a.) Alt. of Cryptogamous

Cryptogamous (a.) Of or pertaining to the series Cryptogamia, or to plants of that series.

Cryptogamist (n.) One skilled in cryptogamic botany.

Cryptogram (n.) A cipher writing. Same as Cryptograph.

Cryptograph (n.) Cipher; something written in cipher.

Cryptographal (a.) Pertaining to cryptography; cryptographical.

Cryptographer (n.) One who writes in cipher, or secret characters.

Cryptographic (a.) Alt. of Cryptographical

Cryptographical (a.) Relating to cryptography; written in secret characters or in cipher, or with sympathetic ink.

Cryptographist (n.) Same as Cryptographer.

Cryptography (n.) The act or art of writing in secret characters; also, secret characters, or cipher.

Cryptology (n.) Secret or enigmatical language.

Cryptonym (n.) A secret name; a name by which a person is known only to the initiated.

Cryptopine (n.) A colorless crystalline alkaloid obtained in small quantities from opium.

Crypturi (n. pl.) An order of flying, drom/ognathous birds, including the tinamous of South America. See Tinamou.

Crystal (n.) The regular form which a substance tends to assume in solidifying, through the inherent power of cohesive attraction. It is bounded by plane surfaces, symmetrically arranged, and each species of crystal has fixed axial ratios. See Crystallization.

Crystal (n.) The material of quartz, in crystallization transparent or nearly so, and either colorless or slightly tinged with gray, or the like; -- called also rock crystal. Ornamental vessels are made of it. Cf. Smoky quartz, Pebble; also Brazilian pebble, under Brazilian.

Crystal (n.) A species of glass, more perfect in its composition and manufacture than common glass, and often cut into ornamental forms. See Flint glass.

Crystal (n.) The glass over the dial of a watch case.

Crystal (n.) Anything resembling crystal, as clear water, etc.

Crystal (a.) Consisting of, or like, crystal; clear; transparent; lucid; pellucid; crystalline.

Crystallin (n.) See Gobulin.

Crystalline (a.) Consisting, or made, of crystal.

Crystalline (a.) Formed by crystallization; like crystal in texture.

Crystalline (a.) Imperfectly crystallized; as, granite is only crystalline, while quartz crystal is perfectly crystallized.

Crystalline (a.) Fig.: Resembling crystal; pure; transparent; pellucid.

Crystalline (n.) A crystalline substance.

Crystalline (n.) See Aniline.

Crystallite (n.) A minute mineral form like those common in glassy volcanic rocks and some slags, not having a definite crystalline outline and not referable to any mineral species, but marking the first step in the crystallization process. According to their form crystallites are called trichites, belonites, globulites, etc.

Crystallizable (a.) Capable of being crystallized; that may be formed into crystals.

Crystallization (n.) The act or process by which a substance in solidifying assumes the form and structure of a crystal, or becomes crystallized.

Crystallization (n.) The body formed by crystallizing; as, silver on precipitation forms arborescent crystallizations.

Crystallized (imp. & p. p.) of Crystallize

Crystallizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crystallize

Crystallize (v. t.) To cause to form crystals, or to assume the crystalline form.

Crystallize (v. i.) To be converted into a crystal; to take on a crystalline form, through the action of crystallogenic or cohesive attraction.

Crystallogenic (a.) Alt. of Crystallogenical

Crystallogenical (a.) Pertaining to the production of crystals; crystal-producing; as, crystallogenic attraction.

Crystallogeny (n.) The science which pertains to the production of crystals.

Crystallographer (n.) One who describes crystals, or the manner of their formation; one versed in crystallography.

Crystallographic (a.) Alt. of Crystallographical

Crystallographical (a.) Pertaining to crystallography.

Crystallographically (adv.) In the manner of crystallography.

Crystallography (n.) The doctrine or science of crystallization, teaching the system of forms among crystals, their structure, and their methods of formation.

Crystallography (n.) A discourse or treatise on crystallization.

Crystalloid (a.) Crystal-like; transparent like crystal.

Crystalloid (n.) A body which, in solution, diffuses readily through animal membranes, and generally is capable of being crystallized; -- opposed to colloid.

Crystalloid (n.) One of the microscopic particles resembling crystals, consisting of protein matter, which occur in certain plant cells; -- called also protein crystal.

Cristallology (n.) The science of the crystalline structure of inorganic bodies.

Crystallomancy (n.) Divination by means of a crystal or other transparent body, especially a beryl.

Crystallometry (n.) The art of measuring crystals.

Crystallurgy (n.) Crystallization.

Ctenocyst (n.) An organ of the Ctenophora, supposed to be sensory.

Ctenoid (a.) Having a comblike margin, as a ctenoid scale

Ctenoid (a.) Pertaining to the Ctenoidei.

Ctenoid (n.) A ctenoidean.

Ctenoidean (a.) Relating to the Ctenoidei.

Ctenoidean (n.) One of the Ctenoidei.

Ctenoidei (n. pl.) A group of fishes, established by Agassiz, characterized by having scales with a pectinated margin, as in the perch. The group is now generally regarded as artificial.

Ctenophora (n. pl.) A class of Coelenterata, commonly ellipsoidal in shape, swimming by means of eight longitudinal rows of paddles. The separate paddles somewhat resemble combs.

Ctenophore (n.) One of the Ctenophora.

Ctenophoric (a.) Alt. of Ctenophorous

Ctenophorous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ctenophora.

Ctenostomata (n. pl.) A suborder of Bryozoa, usually having a circle of bristles below the tentacles.

Cub (n.) A young animal, esp. the young of the bear.

Cub (n.) Jocosely or in contempt, a boy or girl, esp. an awkward, rude, ill-mannered boy.

Cubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Cub

Cubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cub

Cub (v. t. & i.) To bring forth; -- said of animals, or in contempt, of persons.

Cub (n.) A stall for cattle.

Cub (n.) A cupboard.

Cub (v. t.) To shut up or confine.

Cuban (a.) Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants.

Cuban (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Cuba.

Cubation (n.) The act of lying down; a reclining.

Cubatory (a.) Lying down; recumbent.

Cubature (n.) The process of determining the solid or cubic contents of a body.

Cubbridge-head (n.) A bulkhead on the forecastle and half deck of a ship.

Cubby (n.) Alt. of Cubbyhole

Cubbyhole (n.) A snug or confined place.

Cubdrawn (a.) Sucked by cubs.

Cube (n.) A regular solid body, with six equal square sides.

Cube (n.) The product obtained by taking a number or quantity three times as a factor; as, 4x4=16, and 16x4=64, the cube of 4.

Cubed (imp. & p. p.) of Cube

Cubing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cube

Cube (v. t.) To raise to the third power; to obtain the cube of.

Cubeb (n.) The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; in med., Cubeba officinalis), native in Java and Borneo, but now cultivated in various tropical countries. The dried unripe fruit is much used in medicine as a stimulant and purgative.

Cubebic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cubebs; as, cubebic acid (a soft olive-green resin extracted from cubebs).

Cubhood (n.) The state of being a cub.

Cubic (a.) Alt. of Cubical

Cubical (a.) Having the form or properties of a cube; contained, or capable of being contained, in a cube.

Cubical (a.) Isometric or monometric; as, cubic cleavage. See Crystallization.

Cubic (n.) A curve of the third degree.

Cubically (adv.) In a cubical method.

Cubicalness (n.) The quality of being cubical.

Cubicle (n.) A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from a large dormitory.

Cubicular (a.) Belonging to a chamber or bedroom.

Cubiform (a.) Of the form of a cube.

Cubile (n.) The lowest course of stones in a building.

Cubilose (n.) A mucilagenous secretion of certain birds found as the characteristic ingredient of edible bird's-nests.

Cubit (n.) The forearm; the ulna, a bone of the arm extending from elbow to wrist.

Cubit (n.) A measure of length, being the distance from the elbow to the extremity of the middle finger.

Cubital (a.) Of or pertaining to the cubit or ulna; as, the cubital nerve; the cubital artery; the cubital muscle.

Cubital (a.) Of the length of a cubit.

Cubital (n.) A sleeve covering the arm from the elbow to the hand.

Cubited (a.) Having the measure of a cubit.

Cubless (a.) Having no cubs.

Cuboid (a.) Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot.

Cuboid (n.) The bone of the tarsus, which, in man and most mammals, supports the metatarsals of the fourth and fifth toes.

Cuboidal (a.) Cuboid.

Cubo-octahedral (a.) Presenting a combination of a cube and an octahedron.

Cubo-octahedron (n.) A combination of a cube and octahedron, esp. one in which the octahedral faces meet at the middle of the cubic edges.

Cuca (n.) See Coca.

Cucking stool () A kind of chair formerly used for punishing scolds, and also dishonest tradesmen, by fastening them in it, usually in front of their doors, to be pelted and hooted at by the mob, but sometimes to be taken to the water and ducked; -- called also a castigatory, a tumbrel, and a trebuchet; and often, but not so correctly, a ducking stool.

Cuckold (n.) A man whose wife is unfaithful; the husband of an adulteress.

Cuckold (n.) A West Indian plectognath fish (Ostracion triqueter).

Cuckold (n.) The cowfish.

Cuckolded (imp. & p. p.) of Cuckold

Cuckolding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cuckold

Cuckold (v. t.) To make a cuckold of, as a husband, by seducing his wife, or by her becoming an adulteress.

Cuckoldize (v. t.) To cuckold.

Cuckoldly (a.) Having the qualities of a cuckold; mean-spirited; sneaking.

Cuckoldom (n.) The state of a cuckold; cuckolds, collectively.

Cuckoldry (n.) The state of being a cuckold; the practice of making cuckolds.

Cuckold's knot () A hitch or knot, by which a rope is secured to a spar, the two parts of the rope being crossed and seized together; -- called also cuckold's neck.

Cuckoo (n.) A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several allied genera, of many species.

Cuckoobud (n.) A species of Ranunculus (R. bulbosus); -- called also butterflower, buttercup, kingcup, goldcup.

Cuckooflower (n.) A species of Cardamine (C. pratensis), or lady's smock. Its leaves are used in salads. Also, the ragged robin (Lychnis Flos-cuculi).

Cuckoopint (n.) A plant of the genus Arum (A. maculatum); the European wake-robin.

Cucquean (n.) A woman whose husband is unfaithful to her.

Cucujo (n.) The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies.

Cucullate (a.) Alt. of Cucullated

Cucullated (a.) Hooded; cowled; covered, as with a hood.

Cucullated (a.) Having the edges toward the base rolled inward, as the leaf of the commonest American blue violet.

Cucullated (a.) Having the prothorax elevated so as to form a sort of hood, receiving the head, as in certain insects.

Cucullated (a.) Having a hoodlike crest on the head, as certain birds, mammals, and reptiles.

Cuculoid (a.) Like or belonging to the cuckoos (Cuculidae).

Cucumber (n.) A creeping plant, and its fruit, of several species of the genus Cucumis, esp. Cucumis sativus, the unripe fruit of which is eaten either fresh or picked. Also, similar plants or fruits of several other genera. See below.

Cucumiform (a.) Having the form of a cucumber; having the form of a cylinder tapered and rounded at the ends, and either straight or curved.

Cucumis (n.) A genus of plants including the cucumber, melon, and same kinds of gourds.

Cucurbit (n.) Alt. of Cucurbite

Cucurbite (n.) A vessel or flask for distillation, used with, or forming part of, an alembic; a matrass; -- originally in the shape of a gourd, with a wide mouth. See Alembic.

Cucurbitaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants of which the cucumber, melon, and gourd are common examples.

Cucurbitive (a.) Having the shape of a gourd seed; -- said of certain small worms.

Cud (n.) That portion of food which is brought up into the mouth by ruminating animals from their first stomach, to be chewed a second time.

Cud (n.) A portion of tobacco held in the mouth and chewed; a quid.

Cud (n.) The first stomach of ruminating beasts.

Cudbear (n.) A powder of a violet red color, difficult to moisten with water, used for making violet or purple dye. It is prepared from certain species of lichen, especially Lecanora tartarea.

Cudbear (n.) A lichen (Lecanora tartarea), from which the powder is obtained.

Cudden (n.) A clown; a low rustic; a dolt.

Cudden (n.) The coalfish. See 3d Cuddy.

Cuddled (imp. & p. p.) of Cuddle

Cuddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cuddle

Cuddle (v. i.) To lie close or snug; to crouch; to nestle.

Cuddle (v. t.) To embrace closely; to fondle.

Cuddle (n.) A close embrace.

Cuddy (n.) An ass; esp., one driven by a huckster or greengrocer.

Cuddy (n.) A blockhead; a lout.

Cuddy (n.) A lever mounted on a tripod for lifting stones, leveling up railroad ties, etc.

Cuddy (n.) A small cabin: also, the galley or kitchen of a vessel.

Cuddy (n.) The coalfish (Pollachius carbonarius).

Cudgel (n.) A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, and wielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon.

Cudgeled (imp. & p. p.) of Cudgel

Cudgelled () of Cudgel

Cudgeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cudgel

Cudgelling () of Cudgel

Cudgel (v. t.) To beat with a cudgel.

Cudgeler (n.) One who beats with a cudgel.

Cudweed (n.) A small composite plant with cottony or silky stem and leaves, primarily a species of Gnaphalium, but the name is now given to many plants of different genera, as Filago, Antennaria, etc.; cottonweed.

Cue (n.) The tail; the end of a thing; especially, a tail-like twist of hair worn at the back of the head; a queue.

Cue (n.) The last words of a play actor's speech, serving as an intimation for the next succeeding player to speak; any word or words which serve to remind a player to speak or to do something; a catchword.

Cue (n.) A hint or intimation.

Cue (n.) The part one has to perform in, or as in, a play.

Cue (n.) Humor; temper of mind.

Cue (n.) A straight tapering rod used to impel the balls in playing billiards.

Cue (v. t.) To form into a cue; to braid; to twist.

Cue (n.) A small portion of bread or beer; the quantity bought with a farthing or half farthing.

Cuerpo (n.) The body.

Cuffed (imp. & p. p.) of Cuff

Cuffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cuff

Cuff (v. t.) To strike; esp., to smite with the palm or flat of the hand; to slap.

Cuff (v. t.) To buffet.

Cuff (v. i.) To fight; to scuffle; to box.

Cuff (n.) A blow; esp.,, a blow with the open hand; a box; a slap.

Cuff (n.) The fold at the end of a sleeve; the part of a sleeve turned back from the hand.

Cuff (n.) Any ornamental appendage at the wrist, whether attached to the sleeve of the garment or separate; especially, in modern times, such an appendage of starched linen, or a substitute for it of paper, or the like.

Cuffy (n.) A name for a negro.

Cufic (a.) Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabic language.

Cuinage (n.) The stamping of pigs of tin, by the proper officer, with the arms of the duchy of Cornwall.

Cuirasses (pl. ) of Cuirass

Cuirass (n.) A piece of defensive armor, covering the body from the neck to the girdle

Cuirass (n.) The breastplate taken by itself.

Cuirass (n.) An armor of bony plates, somewhat resembling a cuirass.

Cuirassed (a.) Wearing a cuirass.

Cuirassed (a.) Having a covering of bony plates, resembling a cuirass; -- said of certain fishes.

Cuirassier (n.) A soldier armed with a cuirass.

Cuish (n.) Defensive armor for the thighs.

Cuisine (n.) The kitchen or cooking department.

Cuisine (n.) Manner or style of cooking.

Culasse (n.) The lower faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond.

Culdee (n.) One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts of Scotland, Ireland, and Wales.

Culs-de-sac (pl. ) of Cul-de-sac

Cul-de-sac (n.) A passage with only one outlet, as a street closed at one end; a blind alley; hence, a trap.

Cul-de-sac (n.) a position in which an army finds itself with no way of exit but to the front.

Cul-de-sac (n.) Any bag-shaped or tubular cavity, vessel, or organ, open only at one end.

Culerage (n.) See Culrage.

Culex (n.) A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito.

Culiciform (a.) Gnat-shaped.

Culinarily (adv.) In the manner of a kitchen; in connection with a kitchen or cooking.

Culinary (a.) Relating to the kitchen, or to the art of cookery; used in kitchens; as, a culinary vessel; the culinary art.

Culled (imp. & p. p.) of Cull

Culling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cull

Cull (v. t.) To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather or collect; as, to cull flowers.

Cull (n.) A cully; a dupe; a gull. See Cully.

Cullender (n.) A strainer. See Colander.

Culler (n.) One who picks or chooses; esp., an inspector who selects wares suitable for market.

Cullet (v. t.) Broken glass for remelting.

Cullet (n.) A small central plane in the back of a cut gem. See Collet, 3 (b).

Cullibility (n.) Gullibility.

Cullible (a.) Easily deceived; gullible.

Culling (n.) The act of one who culls.

Culling (n.) Anything separated or selected from a mass.

Cullion (n.) A mean wretch; a base fellow; a poltroon; a scullion.

Cullionly (a.) Mean; base.

Cullis (n.) A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids; also, a savory jelly.

Cullises (pl. ) of Cullis

Cullis (n.) A gutter in a roof; a channel or groove.

Culls (v. t.) Refuse timber, from which the best part has been culled out.

Culls (v. t.) Any refuse stuff, as rolls not properly baked.

Cullies (pl. ) of Cully

Cully (n.) A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe; a gull.

Cully (n.) To trick, cheat, or impose on; to deceive.

Cullyism (n.) The state of being a cully.

Culm (n.) The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo), jointed and usually hollow.

Culm (n.) Mineral coal that is not bituminous; anthracite, especially when found in small masses.

Culm (n.) The waste of the Pennsylvania anthracite mines, consisting of fine coal, dust, etc., and used as fuel.

Culmen (n.) Top; summit; acme.

Culmen (n.) The dorsal ridge of a bird's bill.

Culmiferous (a.) Having jointed stems or culms.

Culmiferous (a.) Containing, or abounding in, culm or glance coal.

Culminal (a.) Pertaining to a culmen.

Culminant (a.) Being vertical, or at the highest point of altitude; hence, predominant.

Culminated (imp. & p. p.) of Culminate

Culminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Culminate

Culminate (v. i.) To reach its highest point of altitude; to come to the meridian; to be vertical or directly overhead.

Culminate (v. i.) To reach the highest point, as of rank, size, power, numbers, etc.

Culminate (a.) Growing upward, as distinguished from a lateral growth; -- applied to the growth of corals.

Culmination (n.) The attainment of the highest point of altitude reached by a heavently body; passage across the meridian; transit.

Culmination (n.) Attainment or arrival at the highest pitch of glory, power, etc.

Culpa (n.) Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit, fraud), which implies intent, culpa being imputable to defect of intellect, dolus to defect of heart.

Culpabilities (pl. ) of Culpability

Culpability (n.) The state of being culpable.

Culpable (a.) Deserving censure; worthy of blame; faulty; immoral; criminal.

Culpable (a.) Guilty; as, culpable of a crime.

Culpatory (a.) Expressing blame; censuring; reprehensory; inculpating.

Culpe (n.) Blameworthiness.

Culpon (n.) A shred; a fragment; a strip of wood.

Culprit (p. p.) One accused of, or arraigned for, a crime, as before a judge.

Culprit (p. p.) One quilty of a fault; a criminal.

Culrage (n.) Smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper).

Cult (n .) Attentive care; homage; worship.

Cult (n .) A system of religious belief and worship.

Cultch (n.) Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oyster grounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of the oyster.

Culter (n.) A colter. See Colter.

Cultirostral (a.) Having a bill shaped like the colter of a plow, or like a knife, as the heron, stork, etc.

Cultirostres (n. pl.) A tribe of wading birds including the stork, heron, crane, etc.

Cultivable (a.) Capable of being cultivated or tilled.

Cultivatable (a.) Cultivable.

Cultivated (imp. & p. p.) of Cultivate

Cultivating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cultivate

Cultivate (v. t.) To bestow attention, care, and labor upon, with a view to valuable returns; to till; to fertilize; as, to cultivate soil.

Cultivate (v. t.) To direct special attention to; to devote time and thought to; to foster; to cherish.

Cultivate (v. t.) To seek the society of; to court intimacy with.

Cultivate (v. t.) To improve by labor, care, or study; to impart culture to; to civilize; to refine.

Cultivate (v. t.) To raise or produce by tillage; to care for while growing; as, to cultivate corn or grass.

Cultivation (n.) The art or act of cultivating; improvement for agricultural purposes or by agricultural processes; tillage; production by tillage.

Cultivation (n.) Bestowal of time or attention for self-improvement or for the benefit of others; fostering care.

Cultivation (n.) The state of being cultivated; advancement in physical, intellectual, or moral condition; refinement; culture.

Cultivator (n.) One who cultivates; as, a cultivator of the soil; a cultivator of literature.

Cultivator (n.) An agricultural implement used in the tillage of growing crops, to loosen the surface of the earth and kill the weeds; esp., a triangular frame set with small shares, drawn by a horse and by handles.

Cultrate (a.) Alt. of Cultrated

Cultrated (a.) Sharp-edged and pointed; shaped like a pruning knife, as the beak of certain birds.

Cultriform (a.) Shaped like a pruning knife; cultrate.

Cultrivorous (a.) Devouring knives; swallowing, or pretending to swallow, knives; -- applied to persons who have swallowed, or have seemed to swallow, knives with impunity.

Culturable (a.) Capable of, or fit for, being cultivated; capable or becoming cultured.

Cultural (a.) Of or pertaining to culture.

Culture (n.) The act or practice of cultivating, or of preparing the earth for seed and raising crops by tillage; as, the culture of the soil.

Culture (n.) The act of, or any labor or means employed for, training, disciplining, or refining the moral and intellectual nature of man; as, the culture of the mind.

Culture (n.) The state of being cultivated; result of cultivation; physical improvement; enlightenment and discipline acquired by mental and moral training; civilization; refinement in manners and taste.

Cultured (imp. & p. p.) of Culture

Culturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Culture

Culture (v. t.) To cultivate; to educate.

Cultured (a.) Under culture; cultivated.

Cultured (a.) Characterized by mental and moral training; disciplined; refined; well-educated.

Cultureless (a.) Having no culture.

Culturist (n.) A cultivator.

Culturist (n.) One who is an advocate of culture.

Cultuses (pl. ) of Cultus

Cultus (n. sing. & pl.) Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship; state of religious development. Cf. Cult, 2.

Cultus cod () See Cod, and Buffalo cod, under Buffalo.

Culver (n.) A dove.

Culver (n.) A culverin.

Culverhouse (n.) A dovecote.

Culverin (n.) A long cannon of the 16th century, usually an 18-pounder with serpent-shaped handles.

Culverkey (n.) A bunch of the keys or samaras of the ash tree.

Culverkey (n.) An English meadow plant, perhaps the columbine or the bluebell squill (Scilla nutans).

Culvert (n.) A transverse drain or waterway of masonry under a road, railroad, canal, etc.; a small bridge.

Culvertail (n.) Dovetail.

Culvertailed (a.) United or fastened by a dovetailed joint.

Cumacea (n. pl.) An order of marine Crustacea, mostly of small size.

Cumbent (a.) Lying down; recumbent.

Cumbered (imp. & p. p.) of Cumber

Cumbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cumber

Cumber (v. t.) To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to be burdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining an object, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble.

Cumber (v.) Trouble; embarrassment; distress.

Cumbersome (a.) Burdensome or hindering, as a weight or drag; embarrassing; vexatious; cumbrous.

Cumbersome (a.) Not easily managed; as, a cumbersome contrivance or machine.

Cumbrance (n.) Encumbrance.

Cumbrian (a.) Pertaining to Cumberland, England, or to a system of rocks found there.

Cumbrous (a.) Rendering action or motion difficult or toilsome; serving to obstruct or hinder; burdensome; clogging.

Cumbrous (a.) Giving trouble; vexatious.

Cumene (n.) A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by the distillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol.

Cumfrey (n.) See Comfrey.

Cumic (a.) See Cuming.

Cumidine (n.) A strong, liquid, organic base, C3H7.C6H4.NH2, homologous with aniline.

Cumin (n.) A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel (Cuminum Cyminum), cultivated for its seeds, which have a bitterish, warm taste, with an aromatic flavor, and are used like those of anise and caraway.

Cuminic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cumin, or from oil of caraway; as, cuminic acid.

Cuminil (n .) A substance, analogous to benzil, obtained from oil of caraway.

Cuminol (n.) A liquid, C3H7.C6H4.CHO, obtained from oil of caraway; -- called also cuminic aldehyde.

Cummin (n.) Same as Cumin.

Cumshaw (n.) A present or bonus; -- originally applied to that paid on ships which entered the port of Canton.

Cumshaw (v. t.) To give or make a present to.

Cumu-cirro-stratus (n.) Nimbus, or rain cloud. See Nimbus, and Cloud.

Cumulated (imp. & p. p.) of Cumulate

Cumulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cumulate

Cumulate (v. t.) To gather or throw into a heap; to heap together; to accumulate.

Cumulation (n.) The act of heaping together; a heap. See Accumulation.

Cumulatist (n.) One who accumulates; one who collects.

Cumulative (a.) Composed of parts in a heap; forming a mass; aggregated.

Cumulative (a.) Augmenting, gaining, or giving force, by successive additions; as, a cumulative argument, i. e., one whose force increases as the statement proceeds.

Cumulative (a.) Tending to prove the same point to which other evidence has been offered; -- said of evidence.

Cumulative (a.) Given by same testator to the same legatee; -- said of a legacy.

Cumulose (a.) Full of heaps.

Cumulostratus (n.) A form of cloud. See Cloud.

Cumuli (pl. ) of Cumulus

Cumulus (n.) One of the four principal forms of clouds. SeeCloud.

Cun (v. t.) To con (a ship).

Cun (v. t.) To know. See Con.

Cunabula (n. pl.) The earliest abode; original dwelling place; originals; as, the cunabula of the human race.

Cunabula (n. pl.) The extant copies of the first or earliest printed books, or of such as were printed in the 15th century.

Cunctation (n.) Delay; procrastination.

Cunctative (a.) Slow; tardy; dilatory; causing delay.

Cunctator (n.) One who delays or lingers.

Cunctipotent (a.) All-powerful; omnipotent.

Cund (v. t.) To con (a ship).

Cundurango (n.) The bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of the Milkweed family. It has been supposed, but erroneously, to be a cure for cancer.

Cuneal () Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped.

Cuneate (a.) Alt. of Cuneated

Cuneated (a.) Wedge-shaped

Cuneated (a.) wedge-shaped, with the point at the base; as, a cuneate leaf.

Cuneatic (a.) Cuneiform.

Cuneiform (a.) Alt. of Cuniform

Cuniform (a.) Wedge-shaped; as, a cuneiform bone; -- especially applied to the wedge-shaped or arrowheaded characters of ancient Persian and Assyrian inscriptions. See Arrowheaded.

Cuniform (a.) Pertaining to, or versed in, the ancient wedge-shaped characters, or the inscriptions in them.

Cuneiform (n.) Alt. of Cuniform

Cuniform (n.) The wedge-shaped characters used in ancient Persian and Assyrian inscriptions.

Cuniform (n.) One of the three tarsal bones supporting the first, second third metatarsals. They are usually designated as external, middle, and internal, or ectocuniform, mesocuniform, and entocuniform, respectively.

Cuniform (n.) One of the carpal bones usually articulating with the ulna; -- called also pyramidal and ulnare.

Cunette (n.) A drain trench, in a ditch or moat; -- called also cuvette.

Cunner (n.) A small edible fish of the Atlantic coast (Ctenolabrus adspersus); -- called also chogset, burgall, blue perch, and bait stealer.

Cunner (n.) A small shellfish; the limpet or patella.

Cunning (a.) Knowing; skillful; dexterous.

Cunning (a.) Wrought with, or exhibiting, skill or ingenuity; ingenious; curious; as, cunning work.

Cunning (a.) Crafty; sly; artful; designing; deceitful.

Cunning (a.) Pretty or pleasing; as, a cunning little boy.

Cunning (a.) Knowledge; art; skill; dexterity.

Cunning (a.) The faculty or act of using stratagem to accomplish a purpose; fraudulent skill or dexterity; deceit; craft.

Cunningly (adv.) In a cunning manner; with cunning.

Cunningman (n.) A fortune teller; one who pretends to reveal mysteries.

Cunningness (n.) Quality of being cunning; craft.

Cup (n.) A small vessel, used commonly to drink from; as, a tin cup, a silver cup, a wine cup; especially, in modern times, the pottery or porcelain vessel, commonly with a handle, used with a saucer in drinking tea, coffee, and the like.

Cup (n.) The contents of such a vessel; a cupful.

Cup (n.) Repeated potations; social or excessive indulgence in intoxicating drinks; revelry.

Cup (n.) That which is to be received or indured; that which is allotted to one; a portion.

Cup (n.) Anything shaped like a cup; as, the cup of an acorn, or of a flower.

Cup (n.) A cupping glass or other vessel or instrument used to produce the vacuum in cupping.

Cupped (imp. & p. p.) of Cup

Cupping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cup

Cup (v. t.) To supply with cups of wine.

Cup (v. t.) To apply a cupping apparatus to; to subject to the operation of cupping. See Cupping.

Cup (v. t.) To make concave or in the form of a cup; as, to cup the end of a screw.

Cupbearer (n.) One whose office it is to fill and hand the cups at an entertainment.

Cupbearer (n.) One of the attendants of a prince or noble, permanently charged with the performance of this office for his master.

Cupboard (n.) A board or shelf for cups and dishes.

Cupboard (n.) A small closet in a room, with shelves to receive cups, dishes, food, etc.; hence, any small closet.

Cupboard (v. t.) To collect, as into a cupboard; to hoard.

Cupel (n.) A shallow porous cup, used in refining precious metals, commonly made of bone ashes (phosphate of lime).

Cupelled (imp. & p. p.) of Cupel

Cupelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cupel

Cupel (v. t.) To refine by means of a cupel.

Cupellation (n.) The act or process of refining gold or silver, etc., in a cupel.

Cupfuls (pl. ) of Cupful

Cupful (n.) As much as a cup will hold.

Cup-gall (n.) A kind of oak-leaf gall. See Gall.

Cupid (n .) The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked, winged boy with bow and arrow.

Cupidity (n.) A passionate desire; love.

Cupidity (n.) Eager or inordinate desire, especially for wealth; greed of gain; avarice; covetousness

Cup-moss (n.) A kind of lichen, of the genus Cladonia.

Cupolas (pl. ) of Cupola

Cupola (n.) A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also, a ceiling having the same form. When on a large scale it is usually called dome.

Cupola (n.) A small structure standing on the top of a dome; a lantern.

Cupola (n.) A furnace for melting iron or other metals in large quantity, -- used chiefly in foundries and steel works.

Cupola (n.) A revolving shot-proof turret for heavy ordnance.

Cupola (n.) The top of the spire of the cochlea of the ear.

Cupper (n.) One who performs the operation of cupping.

Cupping (n.) The operation of drawing blood to or from the surface of the person by forming a partial vacuum over the spot. Also, sometimes, a similar operation for drawing pus from an abscess.

Cupreous (a.) Consisting of copper or resembling copper; coppery.

Cupric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its lowest proportion.

Cupriferous (a.) Containing copper; as, cupriferous silver.

Cuprite (n.) The red oxide of copper; red copper; an important ore of copper, occurring massive and in isometric crystals.

Cuproid (n.) A solid related to a tetrahedron, and contained under twelve equal triangles.

Cup-rose (n.) Red poppy. See Cop-rose.

Cuprous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its highest proportion.

Cuprum (n.) Copper.

Cupulate (a.) Having or bearing cupules; cupuliferous.

Cupule (n.) A cuplet or little cup, as of the acorn; the husk or bur of the filbert, chestnut, etc.

Cupule (n.) A sucker or acetabulum.

Cupuliferous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the oak and the chestnut are examples, -- trees bearing a smooth, solid nut inclosed in some kind of cup or bur; bearing, or furnished with, a cupule.

Cur (n.) A mongrel or inferior dog.

Cur (n.) A worthless, snarling fellow; -- used in contempt.

Curability (n.) The state of being curable; curableness.

Curable (v. t.) Capable of being cured; admitting remedy.

Curacao (n.) Alt. of Curacoa

Curacoa (n.) A liqueur, or cordial, flavored with orange peel, cinnamon, and mace; -- first made at the island of Curaccao.

Curacies (pl. ) of Curacy

Curacy (n.) The office or employment of a curate.

Curare (n.) Alt. of Curari

Curari (n.) A black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.). It sometimes has little effect when taken internally, but is quickly fatal when introduced into the blood, and used by the Indians as an arrow poison.

Curarine (n.) A deadly alkaloid extracted from the curare poison and from the Strychnos toxifera. It is obtained in crystalline colorless salts.

Curarize (v. t.) To poison with curare.

Curassow (n.) A large gallinaceous bird of the American genera Crax, Ourax, etc., of the family Cracidae.

Curat (n.) A cuirass or breastplate.

Curate (n.) One who has the cure of souls; originally, any clergyman, but now usually limited to one who assists a rector or vicar.

Curateship (n.) A curacy.

Curation (n.) Cure; healing.

Curative (v. t.) Relating to, or employed in, the cure of diseases; tending to cure.

Curator (n.) One who has the care and superintendence of anything, as of a museum; a custodian; a keeper.

Curator (n.) One appointed to act as guardian of the estate of a person not legally competent to manage it, or of an absentee; a trustee; a guardian.

Curatorship (n.) The office of a curator.

Curatrix (n.) A woman who cures.

Curatrix (n.) A woman who is a guardian or custodian.

Curbed (imp. & p. p.) of Curb

Curbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curb

Curb (v. t.) To bend or curve

Curb (v. t.) To guide and manage, or restrain, as with a curb; to bend to one's will; to subject; to subdue; to restrain; to confine; to keep in check.

Curb (v. t.) To furnish wich a curb, as a well; also, to restrain by a curb, as a bank of earth.

Curb (v. i.) To bend; to crouch; to cringe.

Curb (n.) That which curbs, restrains, or subdues; a check or hindrance; esp., a chain or strap attached to the upper part of the branches of a bit, and capable of being drawn tightly against the lower jaw of the horse.

Curb (n.) An assemblage of three or more pieces of timber, or a metal member, forming a frame around an opening, and serving to maintain the integrity of that opening; also, a ring of stone serving a similar purpose, as at the eye of a dome.

Curb (n.) A frame or wall round the mouth of a well; also, a frame within a well to prevent the earth caving in.

Curb (n.) A curbstone.

Curb (n.) A swelling on the back part of the hind leg of a horse, just behind the lowest part of the hock joint, generally causing lameness.

Curbless (a.) Having no curb or restraint.

Curb roof () A roof having a double slope, or composed, on each side, of two parts which have unequal inclination; a gambrel roof.

Curbstone (n.) A stone /et along a margin as a and protection, as along the edge of a sidewalk next the roadway; an edge stone.

Curch (n.) See Courche.

Curculios (pl. ) of Curculio

Curculio (n.) One of a large group of beetles (Rhynchophora) of many genera; -- called also weevils, snout beetles, billbeetles, and billbugs. Many of the species are very destructive, as the plum curculio, the corn, grain, and rice weevils, etc.

Curculionidous (a.) Pertaining to the Curculionideae, or weevil tribe.

Curcuma (n.) A genus of plants of the order Scitamineae, including the turmeric plant (Curcuma longa).

Curcumin (n.) The coloring principle of turmeric, or curcuma root, extracted as an orange yellow crystalline substance, C14H14O4, with a green fluorescence.

Curd (n.) The coagulated or thickened part of milk, as distinguished from the whey, or watery part. It is eaten as food, especially when made into cheese.

Curd (n.) The coagulated part of any liquid.

Curd (n.) The edible flower head of certain brassicaceous plants, as the broccoli and cauliflower.

Curded (imp. & p. p.) of Curd

Curding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curd

Curd (v. t.) To cause to coagulate or thicken; to cause to congeal; to curdle.

Curd (v. i.) To become coagulated or thickened; to separate into curds and whey

Curdiness (n.) The state of being curdy.

Curdle (v. i.) To change into curd; to coagulate; as, rennet causes milk to curdle.

Curdle (v. i.) To thicken; to congeal.

Curdled (imp. & p. p.) of Curdle

Curdling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curdle

Curdle (v. t.) To change into curd; to cause to coagulate.

Curdle (v. t.) To congeal or thicken.

Curdless (a.) Destitute of curd.

Curdy (a.) Like curd; full of curd; coagulated.

Cure (n.) Care, heed, or attention.

Cure (n.) Spiritual charge; care of soul; the office of a parish priest or of a curate; hence, that which is committed to the charge of a parish priest or of a curate; a curacy; as, to resign a cure; to obtain a cure.

Cure (n.) Medical or hygienic care; remedial treatment of disease; a method of medical treatment; as, to use the water cure.

Cure (n.) Act of healing or state of being healed; restoration to health from disease, or to soundness after injury.

Cure (n.) Means of the removal of disease or evil; that which heals; a remedy; a restorative.

Cured (imp. & p. p.) of Cure

Curing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cure

Cure (v. t.) To heal; to restore to health, soundness, or sanity; to make well; -- said of a patient.

Cure (v. t.) To subdue or remove by remedial means; to remedy; to remove; to heal; -- said of a malady.

Cure (v. t.) To set free from (something injurious or blameworthy), as from a bad habit.

Cure (v. t.) To prepare for preservation or permanent keeping; to preserve, as by drying, salting, etc.; as, to cure beef or fish; to cure hay.

Cure (v. i.) To pay heed; to care; to give attention.

Cure (v. i.) To restore health; to effect a cure.

Cure (v. i.) To become healed.

Cure (n.) A curate; a pardon.

Cureall (n.) A remedy for all diseases, or for all ills; a panacea.

Cureless (a.) Incapable of cure; incurable.

Curer (n.) One who cures; a healer; a physician.

Curer (n.) One who prepares beef, fish, etc., for preservation by drying, salting, smoking, etc.

Curette (n.) A scoop or ring with either a blunt or a cutting edge, for removing substances from the walls of a cavity, as from the eye, ear, or womb.

Curfew (n.) The ringing of an evening bell, originally a signal to the inhabitants to cover fires, extinguish lights, and retire to rest, -- instituted by William the Conqueror; also, the bell itself.

Curfew (n.) A utensil for covering the fire.

Curle (pl. ) of Curia

Curia (n.) One of the thirty parts into which the Roman people were divided by Romulus.

Curia (n.) The place of assembly of one of these divisions.

Curia (n.) The place where the meetings of the senate were held; the senate house.

Curia (n.) The court of a sovereign or of a feudal lord; also; his residence or his household.

Curia (n.) Any court of justice.

Curia (n.) The Roman See in its temporal aspects, including all the machinery of administration; -- called also curia Romana.

Curialism (n.) The view or doctrine of the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.

Curialist (n.) One who belongs to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.

Curialistic (a.) Pertaining to a court.

Curialistic (a.) Relating or belonging to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.

Curiality (n.) The privileges, prerogatives, or retinue of a court.

Curiet (n.) A cuirass.

Curing () p. a. & vb. n. of Cure.

Curios (pl. ) of Curio

Curio (n.) Any curiosity or article of virtu.

Curiologic (a.) Pertaining to a rude kind of hieroglyphics, in which a thing is represented by its picture instead of by a symbol.

Curiosities (pl. ) of Curiosity

Curiosity (n.) The state or quality or being curious; nicety; accuracy; exactness; elaboration.

Curiosity (n.) Disposition to inquire, investigate, or seek after knowledge; a desire to gratify the mind with new information or objects of interest; inquisitiveness.

Curiosity (n.) That which is curious, or fitted to excite or reward attention.

Curiosos (pl. ) of Curioso

Curioso (n.) A virtuoso.

Curious (a.) Difficult to please or satisfy; solicitous to be correct; careful; scrupulous; nice; exact.

Curious (a.) Exhibiting care or nicety; artfully constructed; elaborate; wrought with elegance or skill.

Curious (a.) Careful or anxious to learn; eager for knowledge; given to research or inquiry; habitually inquisitive; prying; -- sometimes with after or of.

Curious (a.) Exciting attention or inquiry; awakening surprise; inviting and rewarding inquisitiveness; not simple or plain; strange; rare.

Curiously (adv.) In a curious manner.

Curiousness (n.) Carefulness; painstaking.

Curiousness (n.) The state of being curious; exactness of workmanship; ingenuity of contrivance.

Curiousness (n.) Inquisitiveness; curiosity.

Curled (imp. & p. p.) of Curl

Curling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curl

Curl (n.) To twist or form into ringlets; to crisp, as the hair.

Curl (n.) To twist or make onto coils, as a serpent's body.

Curl (n.) To deck with, or as with, curls; to ornament.

Curl (n.) To raise in waves or undulations; to ripple.

Curl (n.) To shape (the brim) into a curve.

Curl (v. i.) To contract or bend into curls or ringlets, as hair; to grow in curls or spirals, as a vine; to be crinkled or contorted; to have a curly appearance; as, leaves lie curled on the ground.

Curl (v. i.) To move in curves, spirals, or undulations; to contract in curving outlines; to bend in a curved form; to make a curl or curls.

Curl (v. i.) To play at the game called curling.

Curl (v.) A ringlet, especially of hair; anything of a spiral or winding form.

Curl (v.) An undulating or waving line or streak in any substance, as wood, glass, etc.; flexure; sinuosity.

Curl (v.) A disease in potatoes, in which the leaves, at their first appearance, seem curled and shrunken.

Curled (a.) Having curls; curly; sinuous; wavy; as, curled maple (maple having fibers which take a sinuous course).

Curledness (n.) State of being curled; curliness.

Curler (n.) One who, or that which, curls.

Curler (n.) A player at the game called curling.

Curlew (n.) A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long, slender, curved bill.

Curliness (n.) State of being curly.

Curling (n.) The act or state of that which curls; as, the curling of smoke when it rises; the curling of a ringlet; also, the act or process of one who curls something, as hair, or the brim of hats.

Curling (n.) A scottish game in which heavy weights of stone or iron are propelled by hand over the ice towards a mark.

Curlingly (adv.) With a curl, or curls.

Curly (a.) Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples; crinkled.

Curlycue (n.) Some thing curled or spiral,, as a flourish made with a pen on paper, or with skates on the ice; a trick; a frolicsome caper.

Curmudgeon (n.) An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl.

Curmudgeonly (a.) Like a curmudgeon; niggardly; churlish; as, a curmudgeonly fellow.

Curmurring (n.) Murmuring; grumbling; -- sometimes applied to the rumbling produced by a slight attack of the gripes.

Curr (v. i.) To coo.

Currant (n.) A small kind of seedless raisin, imported from the Levant, chiefly from Zante and Cephalonia; -- used in cookery.

Currant (n.) The acid fruit or berry of the Ribes rubrum or common red currant, or of its variety, the white currant.

Currant (n.) A shrub or bush of several species of the genus Ribes (a genus also including the gooseberry); esp., the Ribes rubrum.

Currencies (pl. ) of Currency

Currency (n.) A continued or uninterrupted course or flow like that of a stream; as, the currency of time.

Currency (n.) The state or quality of being current; general acceptance or reception; a passing from person to person, or from hand to hand; circulation; as, a report has had a long or general currency; the currency of bank notes.

Currency (n.) That which is in circulation, or is given and taken as having or representing value; as, the currency of a country; a specie currency; esp., government or bank notes circulating as a substitute for metallic money.

Currency (n.) Fluency; readiness of utterance.

Currency (n.) Current value; general estimation; the rate at which anything is generally valued.

Current (a.) Running or moving rapidly.

Current (a.) Now passing, as time; as, the current month.

Current (a.) Passing from person to person, or from hand to hand; circulating through the community; generally received; common; as, a current coin; a current report; current history.

Current (a.) Commonly estimated or acknowledged.

Current (a.) Fitted for general acceptance or circulation; authentic; passable.

Current (a.) A flowing or passing; onward motion. Hence: A body of fluid moving continuously in a certain direction; a stream; esp., the swiftest part of it; as, a current of water or of air; that which resembles a stream in motion; as, a current of electricity.

Current (a.) General course; ordinary procedure; progressive and connected movement; as, the current of time, of events, of opinion, etc.

Currently (adv.) In a current manner; generally; commonly; as, it is currently believed.

Currentness (n.) The quality of being current; currency; circulation; general reception.

Currentness (n.) Easiness of pronunciation; fluency.

Curricle (n.) A small or short course.

Curricle (n.) A two-wheeled chaise drawn by two horses abreast.

Curriculums (pl. ) of Curriculum

Curricula (pl. ) of Curriculum

Curriculum (n.) A race course; a place for running.

Curriculum (n.) A course; particularly, a specified fixed course of study, as in a university.

Currie (n. & v.) See 2d & 3d Curry.

Curried (n.) Dressed by currying; cleaned; prepared.

Curried (n.) Prepared with curry; as, curried rice, fowl, etc.

Currier (n.) One who curries and dresses leather, after it is tanned.

Currish (a.) Having the qualities, or exhibiting the characteristics, of a cur; snarling; quarrelsome; snappish; churlish; hence, also malicious; malignant; brutal.

Curried (imp. & p. p.) of Curry

Currying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curry

Curry (v. t.) To dress or prepare for use by a process of scraping, cleansing, beating, smoothing, and coloring; -- said of leather.

Curry (v. t.) To dress the hair or coat of (a horse, ox, or the like) with a currycomb and brush; to comb, as a horse, in order to make clean.

Curry (v. t.) To beat or bruise; to drub; -- said of persons.

Curry (n.) A kind of sauce much used in India, containing garlic, pepper, ginger, and other strong spices.

Curry (n.) A stew of fowl, fish, or game, cooked with curry.

Curry (v. t.) To flavor or cook with curry.

Currycomb (n.) A kind of card or comb having rows of metallic teeth or serrated ridges, used in currying a horse.

Currycomb (v. t.) To comb with a currycomb.

Cursed (imp. & p. p.) of Curse

Curst () of Curse

Cursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curse

Curse (v. t.) To call upon divine or supernatural power to send injury upon; to imprecate evil upon; to execrate.

Curse (v. t.) To bring great evil upon; to be the cause of serious harm or unhappiness to; to furnish with that which will be a cause of deep trouble; to afflict or injure grievously; to harass or torment.

Curse (v. i.) To utter imprecations or curses; to affirm or deny with imprecations; to swear.

Curse (v. t.) An invocation of, or prayer for, harm or injury; malediction.

Curse (v. t.) Evil pronounced or invoked upon another, solemnly, or in passion; subjection to, or sentence of, divine condemnation.

Curse (v. t.) The cause of great harm, evil, or misfortune; that which brings evil or severe affliction; torment.

Cursed (a.) Deserving a curse; execrable; hateful; detestable; abominable.

Cursedly (adv.) In a cursed manner; miserably; in a manner to be detested; enormously.

Cursedness (n.) The state of being under a curse or of being doomed to execration or to evil.

Cursedness (n.) Wickedness; sin; cursing.

Cursedness (n.) Shrewishness.

Curser (n.) One who curses.

Curship (n.) The state of being a cur; one who is currish.

Cursitating (a.) Moving about slightly.

Cursitor (n.) A courier or runner.

Cursitor (n.) An officer in the Court of Chancery, whose business is to make out original writs.

Cursive (a.) Running; flowing.

Cursive (n.) A character used in cursive writing.

Cursive (n.) A manuscript, especially of the New Testament, written in small, connected characters or in a running hand; -- opposed to uncial.

Cursor (n.) Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slides backward and forward upon another part.

Cursorary (a.) Cursory; hasty.

Cursores (n. pl.) An order of running birds including the ostrich, emu, and allies; the Ratitaae.

Cursores (n. pl.) A group of running spiders; the wolf spiders.

Cursorial (a.) Adapted to running or walking, and not to prehension; as, the limbs of the horse are cursorial. See Illust. of Aves.

Cursorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cursores.

Cursorily (adv.) In a running or hasty manner; carelessly.

Cursoriness (n.) The quality of being cursory; superficial performance; as, cursoriness of view.

Cursory (a.) Running about; not stationary.

Cursory (a.) Characterized by haste; hastily or superficially performed; slight; superficial; careless.

Curst () imp. & p. p. of Curse.

Curst (a.) Froward; malignant; mischievous; malicious; snarling.

Curstfully (adv.) Peevishly; vexatiously; detestably.

Curstness (n.) Peevishness; malignity; frowardness; crabbedness; surliness.

Curt (a.) Characterized by excessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as, curt limits; a curt answer.

Curtailed (imp. & p. p.) of Curtail

Curtailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curtail

Curtail (v. t.) To cut off the end or tail, or any part, of; to shorten; to abridge; to diminish; to reduce.

Curtail (n.) The scroll termination of any architectural member, as of a step, etc.

Curtail dog () A dog with a docked tail; formerly, the dog of a person not qualified to course, which, by the forest laws, must have its tail cut short, partly as a mark, and partly from a notion that the tail is necessary to a dog in running; hence, a dog not fit for sporting.

Curtailer (n.) One who curtails.

Curtailment (n.) The act or result of curtailing or cutting off.

Curtain (n.) A hanging screen intended to darken or conceal, and admitting of being drawn back or up, and reclosed at pleasure; esp., drapery of cloth or lace hanging round a bed or at a window; in theaters, and like places, a movable screen for concealing the stage.

Curtain (n.) That part of the rampart and parapet which is between two bastions or two gates. See Illustrations of Ravelin and Bastion.

Curtain (n.) That part of a wall of a building which is between two pavilions, towers, etc.

Curtain (n.) A flag; an ensign; -- in contempt.

Curtained (imp. & p. p.) of Curtain

Curtaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curtain

Curtain (v. t.) To inclose as with curtains; to furnish with curtains.

Curtal (a.) Curt; brief; laconic.

Curtal (n.) A horse with a docked tail; hence, anything cut short.

Curtal ax () Alt. of Curtelasse

Curtle ax () Alt. of Curtelasse

Curtelasse () A corruption of Cutlass.

Curtal friar () A friar who acted as porter at the gate of a monastery.

Curtana (n.) The pointless sword carried before English monarchs at their coronation, and emblematically considered as the sword of mercy; -- also called the sword of Edward the Confessor.

Curtate (a.) Shortened or reduced; -- said of the distance of a planet from the sun or earth, as measured in the plane of the ecliptic, or the distance from the sun or earth to that point where a perpendicular, let fall from the planet upon the plane of the ecliptic, meets the ecliptic.

Curtation (n.) The interval by which the curtate distance of a planet is less than the true distance.

Curtein (n.) Same as Curtana.

Curtes (a.) Courteous.

Curtesies (pl. ) of Curtesy

Curtesy (n.) the life estate which a husband has in the lands of his deceased wife, which by the common law takes effect where he has had issue by her, born alive, and capable of inheriting the lands.

Curtilage (n.) A yard, courtyard, or piece of ground, included within the fence surrounding a dwelling house.

Curtly (adv.) In a curt manner.

Curtness (n.) The quality of bing curt.

Curtsy (n.) Same as Courtesy, an act of respect.

Curule (a.) Of or pertaining to a chariot.

Curule (a.) Of or pertaining to a kind of chair appropriated to Roman magistrates and dignitaries; pertaining to, having, or conferring, the right to sit in the curule chair; hence, official.

Cururo (n.) A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus.

Curval (p. pr.) Alt. of Curvant

Curvant (p. pr.) Bowed; bent; curved.

Curvate (a.) Alt. of Curvated

Curvated (a.) Bent in a regular form; curved.

Curvation (n.) The act of bending or crooking.

Curvative (a.) Having the margins only a little curved; -- said of leaves.

Curvature (n.) The act of curving, or the state of being bent or curved; a curving or bending, normal or abnormal, as of a line or surface from a rectilinear direction; a bend; a curve.

Curvature (n.) The amount of degree of bending of a mathematical curve, or the tendency at any point to depart from a tangent drawn to the curve at that point.

Curve (a.) Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curve surface.

Curve (a.) A bending without angles; that which is bent; a flexure; as, a curve in a railway or canal.

Curve (a.) A line described according to some low, and having no finite portion of it a straight line.

Curved (imp. & p. p.) of Curve

Curving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curve

Curve (a.) To bend; to crook; as, to curve a line; to curve a pipe; to cause to swerve from a straight course; as, to curve a ball in pitching it.

Curve (v. i.) To bend or turn gradually from a given direction; as, the road curves to the right.

Curvedness (n.) The state of being curved.

Curvet (n.) A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legs at once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raises his hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once.

Curvet (n.) A prank; a frolic.

Curveted (imp. & p. p.) of Curvet

-vetted () of Curvet

Curveting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curvet

-vetting () of Curvet

Curvet (n.) To make a curvet; to leap; to bound.

Curvet (n.) To leap and frisk; to frolic.

Curvet (v. t.) To cause to curvet.

Curvicaudate (a.) Having a curved or crooked tail.

Curvicostate (a.) Having bent ribs.

Curvidentate (a.) Having curved teeth.

Curviform (a.) Having a curved form.

Curvilinead (n.) An instrument for drawing curved lines.

Curvilineal (a.) Alt. of Curvilinear

Curvilinear (a.) Consisting of, or bounded by, curved lines; as, a curvilinear figure.

Curvilinearity (n.) The state of being curvilinear or of being bounded by curved lines.

Curvilinearly (adv.) In a curvilinear manner.

Curvinerved (a.) Having the ribs or the veins of the leaves curved; -- called also curvinervate and curve-veined.

Curvirostral (a.) Having a crooked beak, as the crossbill.

Curvirostres (n. pl.) A group of passerine birds, including the creepers and nuthatches.

Curviserial (a.) Distributed in a curved line, as leaves along a stem.

Curvity (n.) The state of being curved; a bending in a regular form; crookedness.

Curvograph (n.) An arcograph.

Cushat (n.) The ringdove or wood pigeon.

Cushewbird (n.) The galeated curassow. See Curassow.

Cushion (n.) A case or bag stuffed with some soft and elastic material, and used to sit or recline upon; a soft pillow or pad.

Cushion (n.) Anything resembling a cushion in properties or use

Cushion (n.) a pad on which gilders cut gold leaf

Cushion (n.) a mass of steam in the end of the cylinder of a steam engine to receive the impact of the piston

Cushion (n.) the elastic edge of a billiard table.

Cushion (n.) A riotous kind of dance, formerly common at weddings; -- called also cushion dance.

Cushioned (imp. & p. p.) of Cushion

Cushioning (p. pr. & vb.) of Cushion

Cushion (v. t.) To seat or place on, or as on a cushion.

Cushion (v. t.) To furnish with cushions; as, to cushion a chaise.

Cushion (v. t.) To conceal or cover up, as under a cushion.

Cushionet (n.) A little cushion.

Cushionless (a.) Hot furnished with a cushion.

Cushiony (a.) Like a cushion; soft; pliable.

Cushite (n.) A descendant of Cush, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah.

Cusk (n.) A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme), allied to the cod, common on the northern coasts of Europe and America; -- called also tusk and torsk.

Cuskin (n.) A kind of drinking cup.

Cusp (n.) A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or from an inner curve of tracery.

Cusp (n.) The beginning or first entrance of any house in the calculations of nativities, etc.

Cusp (n.) The point or horn of the crescent moon or other crescent-shaped luminary.

Cusp (n.) A multiple point of a curve at which two or more branches of the curve have a common tangent.

Cusp (n.) A prominence or point, especially on the crown of a tooth.

Cusp (n.) A sharp and rigid point.

Cusped (imp. & p. p.) of Cusp

Cusping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cusp

Cusp (v. t.) To furnish with a cusp or cusps.

Cuspated (a.) Ending in a point.

Cuspid (n.) One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one point or cusp on the crown. See Tooth.

Cuspidal (a.) Ending in a point.

Cuspidate (v. t.) To make pointed or sharp.

Cuspidate (a.) Alt. of Cuspidated

Cuspidated (a.) Having a sharp end, like the point of a spear; terminating in a hard point; as, a cuspidate leaf.

Cuspidor (n.) Any ornamental vessel used as a spittoon; hence, to avoid the common term, a spittoon of any sort.

Cuspis (n.) A point; a sharp end.

Custard (n.) A mixture of milk and eggs, sweetened, and baked or boiled.

Custode (n.) See Custodian.

Custodial (a.) Relating to custody or guardianship.

Custodian (n.) One who has care or custody, as of some public building; a keeper or superintendent.

Custodianship (n.) Office or duty of a custodian.

Custodier (n.) A custodian.

Custody (n.) A keeping or guarding; care, watch, inspection, for keeping, preservation, or security.

Custody (n.) Judicial or penal safe-keeping.

Custody (n.) State of being guarded and watched to prevent escape; restraint of liberty; confinement; imprisonment.

Custom (n.) Frequent repetition of the same act; way of acting common to many; ordinary manner; habitual practice; usage; method of doing or living.

Custom (n.) Habitual buying of goods; practice of frequenting, as a shop, manufactory, etc., for making purchases or giving orders; business support.

Custom (n.) Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, and resting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, and Prescription.

Custom (n.) Familiar aquaintance; familiarity.

Custom (v. t.) To make familiar; to accustom.

Custom (v. t.) To supply with customers.

Custom (v. i.) To have a custom.

Custom (n.) The customary toll, tax, or tribute.

Custom (n.) Duties or tolls imposed by law on commodities, imported or exported.

Custom (v. t.) To pay the customs of.

Customable (a.) Customary.

Customable (a.) Subject to the payment of customs; dutiable.

Customableness (n.) Quality of being customable; conformity to custom.

Customably (adv.) Usually.

Customarily (adv.) In a customary manner; habitually.

Customariness (n.) Quality of being customary.

Customary (a.) Agreeing with, or established by, custom; established by common usage; conventional; habitual.

Customary (a.) Holding or held by custom; as, customary tenants; customary service or estate.

Customary (n.) A book containing laws and usages, or customs; as, the Customary of the Normans.

Customer (n.) One who collect customs; a toll gatherer.

Customer (n.) One who regularly or repeatedly makes purchases of a trader; a purchaser; a buyer.

Customer (n.) A person with whom a business house has dealings; as, the customers of a bank.

Customer (n.) A peculiar person; -- in an indefinite sense; as, a queer customer; an ugly customer.

Customer (n.) A lewd woman.

Customhouse (n.) The building where customs and duties are paid, and where vessels are entered or cleared.

Custodes (pl. ) of Custos

Custos (n.) A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent.

Custrel (n.) An armor-bearer to a knight.

Custrel (n.) See Costrel.

Custumary (a.) See Customary.

Cut (imp. & p. p.) of Cut

Cutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cut

Cut (v. t.) To separate the parts of with, or as with, a sharp instrument; to make an incision in; to gash; to sever; to divide.

Cut (v. t.) To sever and cause to fall for the purpose of gathering; to hew; to mow or reap.

Cut (v. t.) To sever and remove by cutting; to cut off; to dock; as, to cut the hair; to cut the nails.

Cut (v. t.) To castrate or geld; as, to cut a horse.

Cut (v. t.) To form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, etc.; to carve; to hew out.

Cut (v. t.) To wound or hurt deeply the sensibilities of; to pierce; to lacerate; as, sarcasm cuts to the quick.

Cut (v. t.) To intersect; to cross; as, one line cuts another at right angles.

Cut (v. t.) To refuse to recognize; to ignore; as, to cut a person in the street; to cut one's acquaintance.

Cut (v. t.) To absent one's self from; as, to cut an appointment, a recitation. etc.

Cut (v. i.) To do the work of an edged tool; to serve in dividing or gashing; as, a knife cuts well.

Cut (v. i.) To admit of incision or severance; to yield to a cutting instrument.

Cut (v. i.) To perform the operation of dividing, severing, incising, intersecting, etc.; to use a cutting instrument.

Cut (v. i.) To make a stroke with a whip.

Cut (v. i.) To interfere, as a horse.

Cut (v. i.) To move or make off quickly.

Cut (v. i.) To divide a pack of cards into two portion to decide the deal or trump, or to change the order of the cards to be dealt.

Cut (n.) An opening made with an edged instrument; a cleft; a gash; a slash; a wound made by cutting; as, a sword cut.

Cut (n.) A stroke or blow or cutting motion with an edged instrument; a stroke or blow with a whip.

Cut (n.) That which wounds the feelings, as a harsh remark or criticism, or a sarcasm; personal discourtesy, as neglecting to recognize an acquaintance when meeting him; a slight.

Cut (n.) A notch, passage, or channel made by cutting or digging; a furrow; a groove; as, a cut for a railroad.

Cut (n.) The surface left by a cut; as, a smooth or clear cut.

Cut (n.) A portion severed or cut off; a division; as, a cut of beef; a cut of timber.

Cut (n.) An engraved block or plate; the impression from such an engraving; as, a book illustrated with fine cuts.

Cut (n.) The act of dividing a pack cards.

Cut (n.) The right to divide; as, whose cut is it?

Cut (n.) Manner in which a thing is cut or formed; shape; style; fashion; as, the cut of a garment.

Cut (n.) A common work horse; a gelding.

Cut (n.) The failure of a college officer or student to be present at any appointed exercise.

Cut (n.) A skein of yarn.

Cut (a.) Gashed or divided, as by a cutting instrument.

Cut (a.) Formed or shaped as by cutting; carved.

Cut (a.) Overcome by liquor; tipsy.

Cutaneous (a.) Of pertaining to the skin; existing on, or affecting, the skin; as, a cutaneous disease; cutaneous absorption; cutaneous respiration.

Cutaway (a.) Having a part cut off or away; having the corners rounded or cut away.

Cutch (n.) See Catechu.

Cutch (n.) See Cultch.

Cutchery (n.) A hindoo hall of justice.

Cute (a.) Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning.

Cuteness (n.) Acuteness; cunning.

Cutgrass () A grass with leaves having edges furnished with very minute hooked prickles, which form a cutting edge; one or more species of Leersia.

Cuticle (n.) The scarfskin or epidermis. See Skin.

Cuticle (n.) The outermost skin or pellicle of a plant, found especially in leaves and young stems.

Cuticle (n.) A thin skin formed on the surface of a liquid.

Cuticular (a.) Pertaining to the cuticle, or external coat of the skin; epidermal.

Cutin (n.) The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall, makes it waterproof, as in cork.

Cutinization (n.) The conversion of cell walls into a material which repels water, as in cork.

Cutinize (v. t. & i.) To change into cutin.

Cutis (n.) See Dermis.

Cutlasses (pl. ) of Cutlass

Cutlass (n.) A short, heavy, curving sword, used in the navy. See Curtal ax.

Cutler (n.) One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cutting instruments.

Cutlery (n.) The business of a cutler.

Cutlery (n.) Edged or cutting instruments, collectively.

Cutlet (n.) A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut for broiling.

Cutling (n.) The art of making edged tools or cutlery.

Cut-off (n.) That which cuts off or shortens, as a nearer passage or road.

Cut-off (n.) The valve gearing or mechanism by which steam is cut off from entering the cylinder of a steam engine after a definite point in a stroke, so as to allow the remainder of the stroke to be made by the expansive force of the steam already let in. See Expansion gear, under Expansion.

Cut-off (n.) Any device for stopping or changing a current, as of grain or water in a spout.

Cutose (n.) A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membrane covering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essential ingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid.

Cut-out (n.) A species of switch for changing the current from one circuit to another, or for shortening a circuit.

Cut-out (n.) A device for breaking or separating a portion of circuit.

Cutpurse (n.) One who cuts purses for the sake of stealing them or their contents (an act common when men wore purses fastened by a string to their girdles); one who steals from the person; a pickpocket

Cutter (n.) One who cuts; as, a stone cutter; a die cutter; esp., one who cuts out garments.

Cutter (n.) That which cuts; a machine or part of a machine, or a tool or instrument used for cutting, as that part of a mower which severs the stalk, or as a paper cutter.

Cutter (n.) A fore tooth; an incisor.

Cutter (n.) A boat used by ships of war.

Cutter (n.) A fast sailing vessel with one mast, rigged in most essentials like a sloop. A cutter is narrower end deeper than a sloop of the same length, and depends for stability on a deep keel, often heavily weighted with lead.

Cutter (n.) A small armed vessel, usually a steamer, in the revenue marine service; -- also called revenue cutter.

Cutter (n.) A small, light one-horse sleigh.

Cutter (n.) An officer in the exchequer who notes by cutting on the tallies the sums paid.

Cutter (n.) A ruffian; a bravo; a destroyer.

Cutter (n.) A kind of soft yellow brick, used for facework; -- so called from the facility with which it can be cut.

Cutthroat (n.) One who cuts throats; a murderer; an assassin.

Cutthroat (a.) Murderous; cruel; barbarous.

Cutting (n.) The act or process of making an incision, or of severing, felling, shaping, etc.

Cutting (n.) Something cut, cut off, or cut out, as a twig or scion cut off from a stock for the purpose of grafting or of rooting as an independent plant; something cut out of a newspaper; an excavation cut through a hill or elsewhere to make a way for a railroad, canal, etc.; a cut.

Cutting (a.) Adapted to cut; as, a cutting tool.

Cutting (a.) Chilling; penetrating; sharp; as, a cutting wind.

Cutting (a.) Severe; sarcastic; biting; as, a cutting reply.

Cuttingly (adv.) In a cutting manner.

Cuttle (n.) A knife.

Cuttle (n.) Alt. of Cuttlefish

Cuttlefish (n.) A cephalopod of the genus Sepia, having an internal shell, large eyes, and ten arms furnished with denticulated suckers, by means of which it secures its prey. The name is sometimes applied to dibranchiate cephalopods generally.

Cuttlefish (n.) A foul-mouthed fellow.

Cuttle bone () The shell or bone of cuttlefishes, used for various purposes, as for making polishing powder, etc.

Cuttoo plate () A hood over the end of a wagon wheel hub to keep dirt away from the axle.

Cytty (a.) Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark.

Cutty (n.) A short spoon.

Cutty (n.) A short tobacco pipe.

Cutty (n.) A light or unchaste woman.

Cuttystool (n.) A low stool

Cuttystool (n.) A seat in old Scottish churches, where offenders were made to sit, for public rebuke by the minister.

Cutwal (n.) The chief police officer of a large city.

Cutwater (n.) The fore part of a ship's prow, which cuts the water.

Cutwater (n.) A starling or other structure attached to the pier of a bridge, with an angle or edge directed up stream, in order better to resist the action of water, ice, etc.; the sharpened upper end of the pier itself.

Cutwater (n.) A sea bird of the Atlantic (Rhynchops nigra); -- called also black skimmer, scissorsbill, and razorbill. See Skimmer.

Cutwork (n.) An ancient term for embroidery, esp. applied to the earliest form of lace, or to that early embroidery on linen and the like, from which the manufacture of lace was developed.

Cutworm (n.) A caterpillar which at night eats off young plants of cabbage, corn, etc., usually at the ground. Some kinds ascend fruit trees and eat off the flower buds. During the day, they conceal themselves in the earth. The common cutworms are the larvae of various species of Agrotis and related genera of noctuid moths.

Cuvette (n.) A pot, bucket, or basin, in which molten plate glass is carried from the melting pot to the casting table.

Cuvette (n.) A cunette.

Cuvette (n.) A small vessel with at least two flat and transparent sides, used to hold a liquid sample to be analysed in the light path of a spectrometer.

Cyamelide (n.) A white amorphous substance, regarded as a polymeric modification of isocyanic acid.

Cyamellone (n.) A complex derivative of cyanogen, regarded as an acid, and known chiefly in its salts; -- called also hydromellonic acid.

Cyanate (n.) A salt of cyanic acid.

Cyanaurate (n.) See Aurocyanide.

Cyanean (a.) Having an azure color.

Cyanic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, cyanogen.

Cyanic (a.) Of or pertaining to a blue color.

Cyanide (n.) A compound formed by the union of cyanogen with an element or radical.

Cyanin (n.) The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyan and anthocyanin.

Cyanine (n.) One of a series of artificial blue or red dyes obtained from quinoline and lepidine and used in calico printing.

Cyanite (n.) A mineral occuring in thin-bladed crystals and crystalline aggregates, of a sky-blue color. It is a silicate of aluminium.

Cyanogen (n.) A colorless, inflammable, poisonous gas, C2N2, with a peach-blossom odor, so called from its tendency to form blue compounds; obtained by heating ammonium oxalate, mercuric cyanide, etc. It is obtained in combination, forming an alkaline cyanide when nitrogen or a nitrogenous compound is strongly ignited with carbon and soda or potash. It conducts itself like a member of the halogen group of elements, and shows a tendency to form complex compounds. The name is also applied to the univalent radical, CN (the half molecule of cyanogen proper), which was one of the first compound radicals recognized.

Cyanometer (n.) An instrument for measuring degress of blueness.

Cyanopathy (n.) A disease in which the body is colored blue in its surface, arising usually from a malformation of the heart, which causes an imperfect arterialization of the blood; blue jaundice.

Cyanophyll (n.) A blue coloring matter supposed by some to be one of the component parts of chlorophyll.

Cyanosed (a.) Rendered blue, as the surface of the body, from cyanosis or deficient a/ration of the blood.

Cyanosis (n.) A condition in which, from insufficient a/ration of the blood, the surface of the body becomes blue. See Cyanopathy.

Cyanosite (n.) Native sulphate of copper. Cf. Blue vitriol, under Blue.

Cyanotic (a.) Relating to cyanosis; affected with cyanosis; as, a cyanotic patient; having the hue caused by cyanosis; as, a cyanotic skin.

Cyanotype (n.) A photographic picture obtained by the use of a cyanide.

Cyanurate (n.) A salt of cyanuric acid.

Cyanuret (n.) A cyanide.

Cyanuric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cyanic and uric acids.

Cyanuric acid () an organic acid, C3O3N3H3, first obtained by heating uric acid or urea, and called pyrouric acid; afterwards obtained from isocyanic acid. It is a white crystalline substance, odorless and almost tasteless; -- called also tricarbimide.

Cyathiform (a.) In the form of a cup, a little widened at the top.

Cyatholith (n.) A kind of coccolith, which in shape resembles a minute cup widened at the top, and varies in size from / to / of an inch.

Cyathophylloid (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the family Cyathophyllidae.

Cyathophylloid (n.) A fossil coral of the family Cyathophyllidae; sometimes extended to fossil corals of other related families belonging to the group Rugosa; -- also called cup corals. Thay are found in paleozoic rocks.

Cycad (n.) Any plant of the natural order Cycadaceae, as the sago palm, etc.

Cycadaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants like the palms, but having exogenous wood. The sago palm is an example.

Cycas (n.) A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palms and the pines. The pith of the trunk of some species furnishes a valuable kind of sago.

Cyclamen (n.) A genus of plants of the Primrose family, having depressed rounded corms, and pretty nodding flowers with the petals so reflexed as to point upwards, whence it is called rabbits' ears. It is also called sow bread, because hogs are said to eat the corms.

Cyclamin (n.) A white amorphous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from the corm of Cyclamen Europaeum.

Cyclas (n.) A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front), worn in the Middle Ages. It was sometimes embroidered or interwoven with gold. Also, a rich stuff from which the gown was made.

Cycle (n.) An imaginary circle or orbit in the heavens; one of the celestial spheres.

Cycle (n.) An interval of time in which a certain succession of events or phenomena is completed, and then returns again and again, uniformly and continually in the same order; a periodical space of time marked by the recurrence of something peculiar; as, the cycle of the seasons, or of the year.

Cycle (n.) An age; a long period of time.

Cycle (n.) An orderly list for a given time; a calendar.

Cycle (n.) The circle of subjects connected with the exploits of the hero or heroes of some particular period which have served as a popular theme for poetry, as the legend of Arthur and the knights of the Round Table, and that of Charlemagne and his paladins.

Cycle (n.) One entire round in a circle or a spire; as, a cycle or set of leaves.

Cycle (n.) A bicycle or tricycle, or other light velocipede.

Cycled (imp. & p. p.) of Cycle

Cycling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cycle

Cycle (v. i.) To pass through a cycle of changes; to recur in cycles.

Cycle (v. i.) To ride a bicycle, tricycle, or other form of cycle.

Cyclic (a.) Alt. of Cyclical

Cyclical (a.) Of or pertaining to a cycle or circle; moving in cycles; as, cyclical time.

Cyclide (n.) A surface of the fourth degree, having certain special relations to spherical surfaces. The tore or anchor ring is one of the cyclides.

Cycling (n.) The act, art, or practice, of riding a cycle, esp. a bicycle or tricycle.

Cyclist (n.) A cycler.

Cyclo- () A combining form meaning circular, of a circle or wheel.

Cyclobranchiate (a.) Having the gills around the margin of the body, as certain limpets.

Cycloganoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cycloganoidei.

Cycloganoid (n.) One of the Cycloganoidei.

Cycloganoidei (n. pl.) An order of ganoid fishes, having cycloid scales. The bowfin (Amia calva) is a living example.

Cyclograph (n.) See Arcograph.

Cycloid (n.) A curve generated by a point in the plane of a circle when the circle is rolled along a straight line, keeping always in the same plane.

Cycloid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cycloidei.

Cycloid (n.) One of the Cycloidei.

Cycloidal (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a cycloid; as, the cycloidal space is the space contained between a cycloid and its base.

Cycloidei (n. pl.) An order of fishes, formerly proposed by Agassiz, for those with thin, smooth scales, destitute of marginal spines, as the herring and salmon. The group is now regarded as artificial.

Cycloidian (a. & n.) Same as 2d and 3d Cycloid.

Cyclometer (n.) A contrivance for recording the revolutions of a wheel, as of a bicycle.

Cyclometry (n.) The art of measuring circles.

Cyclone (n.) A violent storm, often of vast extent, characterized by high winds rotating about a calm center of low atmospheric pressure. This center moves onward, often with a velocity of twenty or thirty miles an hour.

Cyclonic (a.) Pertaining to a cyclone.

Cyclop (n.) See Note under Cyclops, 1.

Cyclopean (a.) Pertaining to the Cyclops; characteristic of the Cyclops; huge; gigantic; vast and rough; massive; as, Cyclopean labors; Cyclopean architecture.

Cyclopedia (n.) Alt. of Cyclopaedia

Cyclopaedia (n.) The circle or compass of the arts and sciences (originally, of the seven so-called liberal arts and sciences); circle of human knowledge. Hence, a work containing, in alphabetical order, information in all departments of knowledge, or on a particular department or branch; as, a cyclopedia of the physical sciences, or of mechanics. See Encyclopedia.

Cyclopedic (a.) Belonging to the circle of the sciences, or to a cyclopedia; of the nature of a cyclopedia; hence, of great range, extent, or amount; as, a man of cyclopedic knowledge.

Cyclopedist (n.) A maker of, or writer for, a cyclopedia.

Cyclopic (a.) Pertaining to the Cyclops; Cyclopean.

Cyclops (n. sing. & pl.) One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, having but one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead. They were fabled to inhabit Sicily, and to assist in the workshops of Vulcan, under Mt. Etna.

Cyclops (n. sing. & pl.) A genus of minute Entomostraca, found both in fresh and salt water. See Copepoda.

Cyclops (n. sing. & pl.) A portable forge, used by tinkers, etc.

Cyclorama (n.) A pictorial view which is extended circularly, so that the spectator is surrounded by the objects represented as by things in nature. The realistic effect is increased by putting, in the space between the spectator and the picture, things adapted to the scene represented, and in some places only parts of these objects, the completion of them being carried out pictorially.

Cycloscope (n.) A machine for measuring at any moment velocity of rotation, as of a wheel of a steam engine.

Cyclosis (n.) The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within a living vegetable cell.

Cyclostomata (n. pl.) Alt. of Cyclostoma

Cyclostoma (n. pl.) A division of Bryozoa, in which the cells have circular apertures.

Cyclostome (a.) Alt. of Cyclostomous

Cyclostomous (a.) Pertaining to the Cyclostomi.

Cyclostomi (n. pl.) A glass of fishes having a suckerlike mouth, without jaws, as the lamprey; the Marsipobranchii.

Cyclostylar (a.) Relating to a structure composed of a circular range of columns, without a core or building within.

Cyclostyle (n.) A contrivance for producing manifold copies of writing or drawing. The writing or drawing is done with a style carrying a small wheel at the end which makes minute punctures in the paper, thus converting it into a stencil. Copies are transferred with an inked roller.

Cyder (n.) See Cider.

Cydonin (n.) A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds of the quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose.

Cygnet (n.) A young swan.

Cygnus (n.) A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, or following, Lyra; the Swan.

Cylinder (n.) A solid body which may be generated by the rotation of a parallelogram round one its sides; or a body of rollerlike form, of which the longitudinal section is oblong, and the cross section is circular.

Cylinder (n.) The space inclosed by any cylindrical surface. The space may be limited or unlimited in length.

Cylinder (n.) Any hollow body of cylindrical form

Cylinder (n.) The chamber of a steam engine in which the piston is moved by the force of steam.

Cylinder (n.) The barrel of an air or other pump.

Cylinder (n.) The revolving platen or bed which produces the impression or carries the type in a cylinder press.

Cylinder (n.) The bore of a gun; the turning chambered breech of a revolver.

Cylinder (n.) The revolving square prism carrying the cards in a Jacquard loom.

Cylindraceous (a.) Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.

Cylindric (a.) Alt. of Cylindrical

Cylindrical (a.) Having the form of a cylinder, or of a section of its convex surface; partaking of the properties of the cylinder.

Cylindrically (adv.) In the manner or shape of a cylinder; so as to be cylindrical.

Cylindricity (n.) The quality or condition of being cylindrical.

Cylindriform (a.) Having the form of a cylinder.

Cylindroid (n.) A solid body resembling a right cylinder, but having the bases or ends elliptical.

Cylindroid (n.) A certain surface of the third degree, described by a moving straight line; -- used to illustrate the motions of a rigid body and also the forces acting on the body.

Cylindrometric (a.) Belonging to a scale used in measuring cylinders.

Cyma (n.) A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which is wavelike in form.

Cyma (n.) A cyme. See Cyme.

Cymar (n.) A slight covering; a scarf. See Simar.

Cymatium (n.) A capping or crowning molding in classic architecture.

Cymbal (n.) A musical instrument used by the ancients. It is supposed to have been similar to the modern kettle drum, though perhaps smaller.

Cymbal (n.) A musical instrument of brass, shaped like a circular dish or a flat plate, with a handle at the back; -- used in pairs to produce a sharp ringing sound by clashing them together.

Cymbal (n.) A musical instrument used by gypsies and others, made of steel wire, in a triangular form, on which are movable rings.

Cymbalist (n.) A performer upon cymbals.

Cymbiform (a.) Shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the upper surface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses.

Cymbium (n.) A genus of marine univalve shells; the gondola.

Cyme (n.) A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal or determinate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of the opening of the blossoms.

Cymene (n.) A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol, camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen.

Cymenol (n.) See Carvacrol.

Cymidine (n.) A liquid organic base, C10H13.NH2, derived from cymene.

Cymiferous (a.) Producing cymes.

Cymling (n.) Alt. of Cymbling

Cymbling (n.) A scalloped or pattypan variety of summer squash.

Cymogene (n.) A highly volatile liquid, condensed by cold and pressure from the first products of the distillation of petroleum; -- used for producing low temperatures.

Cymoid (a.) Having the form of a cyme.

Cymophane (n.) See Chrysoberyl.

Cymophanous (a.) Having a wavy, floating light; opalescent; chatoyant.

Cymose (a.) Alt. of Cymous

Cymous (a.) Having the nature of a cyme, or derived from a cyme; bearing, or pertaining to, a cyme or cymes.

Cymric (a.) Welsh.

Cymric (n.) The Welsh language.

Cymry (n.) A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by themselves .

Cymule (n.) A small cyme, or one of very few flowers.

Cynanche (n.) Any disease of the tonsils, throat, or windpipe, attended with inflammation, swelling, and difficulty of breathing and swallowing.

Cynanthropy (n.) A kind of madness in which men fancy themselves changed into dogs, and imitate the voice and habits of that animal.

Cynarctomachy (n.) Bear baiting with a dog.

Cynarrhodium (n.) A fruit like that of the rose, consisting of a cup formed of the calyx tube and receptacle, and containing achenes.

Cynegetics (n.) The art of hunting with dogs.

Cynic (a.) Alt. of Cynical

Cynical (a.) Having the qualities of a surly dog; snarling; captious; currish.

Cynical (a.) Pertaining to the Dog Star; as, the cynic, or Sothic, year; cynic cycle.

Cynical (a.) Belonging to the sect of philosophers called cynics; having the qualities of a cynic; pertaining to, or resembling, the doctrines of the cynics.

Cynical (a.) Given to sneering at rectitude and the conduct of life by moral principles; disbelieving in the reality of any human purposes which are not suggested or directed by self-interest or self-indulgence; as, a cynical man who scoffs at pretensions of integrity; characterized by such opinions; as, cynical views of human nature.

Cynic (n.) One of a sect or school of philosophers founded by Antisthenes, and of whom Diogenes was a disciple. The first Cynics were noted for austere lives and their scorn for social customs and current philosophical opinions. Hence the term Cynic symbolized, in the popular judgment, moroseness, and contempt for the views of others.

Cynic (n.) One who holds views resembling those of the Cynics; a snarler; a misanthrope; particularly, a person who believes that human conduct is directed, either consciously or unconsciously, wholly by self-interest or self-indulgence, and that appearances to the contrary are superficial and untrustworthy.

Cynically (adv.) In a cynical manner.

Cynicalness (n.) The quality of being cynical.

Cynicism (n.) The doctrine of the Cynics; the quality of being cynical; the mental state, opinions, or conduct, of a cynic; morose and contemptuous views and opinions.

Cynoidea (n. pl.) A division of Carnivora, including the dogs, wolves, and foxes.

Cynorexia (n.) A voracious appetite, like that of a starved dog.

Cynosural (a.) Of or pertaining to a cynosure.

Cynosure (n.) The constellation of the Lesser Bear, to which, as containing the polar star, the eyes of mariners and travelers were often directed.

Cynosure (n.) That which serves to direct.

Cynosure (n.) Anything to which attention is strongly turned; a center of attraction.

Cyon (n.) See Cion, and Scion.

Cyperaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large family of plants of which the sedge is the type.

Cyperus (n.) A large genus of plants belonging to the Sedge family, and including the species called galingale, several bulrushes, and the Egyptian papyrus.

Cypher (n. & v.) See Cipher.

Cyphonautes (n.) The free-swimming, bivalve larva of certain Bryozoa.

Cyphonism (n.) A punishment sometimes used by the ancients, consisting in the besmearing of the criminal with honey, and exposing him to insects. It is still in use among some Oriental nations.

Cypraea (n.) A genus of mollusks, including the cowries. See Cowrie.

Cypres (n.) A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform as nearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law.

Cypresses (pl. ) of Cypress

Cypress (n.) A coniferous tree of the genus Cupressus. The species are mostly evergreen, and have wood remarkable for its durability.

Cyprian (a.) Belonging to Cyprus.

Cyprian (a.) Of, pertaining, or conducing to, lewdness.

Cyprian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cyprus, especially of ancient Cyprus; a Cypriot.

Cyprian (n.) A lewd woman; a harlot.

Cyprine (a.) Of or pertaining to the cypress.

Cyprine (a.) Cyprinoid.

Cyprinodont (n.) One of the Cyprinodontidae, a family of fishes including the killifishes or minnows. See Minnow.

Cyprinoid (a.) Like the carp (Cyprinus).

Cyprinoid (n.) One of the Cyprinidae, or Carp family, as the goldfish, barbel, etc.

Cypriot (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cyprus.

Cypripedium (n.) A genus of orchidaceous plants including the lady's slipper.

Cyprides (pl. ) of Cypris

Cypris (n.) A genus of small, bivalve, fresh-water Crustacea, belonging to the Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus.

Cyprus (n.) A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to, crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common, and used for mourning.

Cypruslawn (n.) Same as Cyprus.

Cypsela (n.) A one-seeded, one-celled, indehiscent fruit; an achene with the calyx tube adherent.

Cypseliform (a.) Like or belonging to the swifts (Cypselidae.)

Cyrenaic (a.) Pertaining to Cyrenaica, an ancient country of northern Africa, and to Cyrene, its principal city; also, to a school of philosophy founded by Aristippus, a native of Cyrene.

Cyrenaic (n.) A native of Cyrenaica; also, a disciple of the school of Aristippus. See Cyrenian, n.

Cyrenian (a.) Pertaining to Cyrene, in Africa; Cyrenaic.

Cyrenian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cyrene.

Cyrenian (n.) One of a school of philosophers, established at Cyrene by Aristippus, a disciple of Socrates. Their doctrines were nearly the same as those of the Epicureans.

Cyriologic (a.) Relating to capital letters.

Cyrtostyle (n.) A circular projecting portion.

Cyst (n.) A pouch or sac without opening, usually membranous and containing morbid matter, which is accidentally developed in one of the natural cavities or in the substance of an organ.

Cyst (n.) In old authors, the urinary bladder, or the gall bladder.

Cyst (n.) One of the bladders or air vessels of certain algae, as of the great kelp of the Pacific, and common rockweeds (Fuci) of our shores.

Cyst (n.) A small capsule or sac of the kind in which many immature entozoans exist in the tissues of living animals; also, a similar form in Rotifera, etc.

Cyst (n.) A form assumed by Protozoa in which they become saclike and quiescent. It generally precedes the production of germs. See Encystment.

Cysted (a.) Inclosed in a cyst.

Cystic (a.) Having the form of, or living in, a cyst; as, the cystic entozoa.

Cystic (a.) Containing cysts; cystose; as, cystic sarcoma.

Cystic (a.) Pertaining to, or contained in, a cyst; esp., pertaining to, or contained in, either the urinary bladder or the gall bladder.

Cysticerce (n.) Alt. of Cysticercus

Cysticercus (n.) The larval form of a tapeworm, having the head and neck of a tapeworm attached to a saclike body filled with fluid; -- called also bladder worm, hydatid, and measle (as, pork measle).

Cysticule (n.) An appendage of the vestibular ear sac of fishes.

Cystid (n.) One of the Cystidea.

Cystidea (n. pl.) An order of Crinoidea, mostly fossils of the Paleozoic rocks. They were usually roundish or egg-shaped, and often unsymmetrical; some were sessile, others had short stems.

Cystidean (n.) One of the Cystidea.

Cystine (n.) A white crystalline substance, C3H7NSO2, containing sulphur, occuring as a constituent of certain rare urinary calculi, and occasionally found as a sediment in urine.

Cystis (n.) A cyst. See Cyst.

Cystitis (n.) Inflammation of the bladder.

Cystocarp (n.) A minute vesicle in a red seaweed, which contains the reproductive spores.

Cystocele (n.) Hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes; vesical hernia.

Cystoid (n.) Alt. of Cystoidean

Cystoidean (n.) Same as Cystidean.

Cystoidea (n.) Same as Cystidea.

Cystolith (n.) A concretion of mineral matter within a leaf or other part of a plant.

Cystolith (n.) A urinary calculus.

Cystolithic (a.) Relating to stone in the bladder.

Cystoplast (n.) A nucleated cell having an envelope or cell wall, as a red blood corpuscle or an epithelial cell; a cell concerned in growth.

Cystose (a.) Containing, or resembling, a cyst or cysts; cystic; bladdery.

Cystotome (n.) A knife or instrument used in cystotomy.

Cystotomy (n.) The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation of cutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus.

Cytherean (a.) Pertaining to the goddess Venus.

Cytoblast (n.) The nucleus of a cell; the germinal or active spot of a cellule, through or in which cell development takes place.

Cytoblastema (n.) See Protoplasm.

Cytococci (pl. ) of Cytococcus

Cytococcus (n.) The nucleus of the cytula or parent cell.

Cytode (n.) A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest form of independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei are present.

Cytogenesis (n.) Development of cells in animal and vegetable organisms. See Gemmation, Budding, Karyokinesis; also Cell development, under Cell.

Cytogenic (a.) Alt. of Cytogenetic

Cytogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to cytogenesis or cell development.

Cytogenous (a.) Producing cells; -- applied esp. to lymphatic, or adenoid, tissue.

Cytogeny (n .) Cell production or development; cytogenesis.

Cytoid (a.) Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle, etc.

Cytoplasm (n.) The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from the karyoplasma, or substance of the nucleus.

Cytula (n.) The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development of which the child or other organism is formed.

Czar (n.) A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia.

Czarevna (n.) The title of the wife of the czarowitz.

Czarina (n.) The title of the empress of Russia.

Czarinian (a.) Of or pertaining to the czar or the czarina; czarish.

Czarish (a.) Of or pertaining to the czar.

Czarowitzes (pl. ) of Czarowitz

Czarowitz (n.) The title of the eldest son of the czar of Russia.

Czech (n.) One of the Czechs.

Czech (n.) The language of the Czechs (often called Bohemian), the harshest and richest of the Slavic languages.

Czechic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Czechs.

Czechs (n. pl.) The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations, numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemia and Moravia.
D () The fourth letter of the English alphabet, and a vocal consonant. The English letter is from Latin, which is from Greek, which took it from Ph/nician, the probable ultimate origin being Egyptian. It is related most nearly to t and th; as, Eng. deep, G. tief; Eng. daughter, G. tochter, Gr. qyga`thr, Skr. duhitr. See Guide to Pronunciation, 178, 179, 229.

D () The nominal of the second tone in the model major scale (that in C), or of the fourth tone in the relative minor scale of C (that in A minor), or of the key tone in the relative minor of F.

D () As a numeral D stands for 500. in this use it is not the initial of any word, or even strictly a letter, but one half of the sign / (or / ) the original Tuscan numeral for 1000.

Dab (n.) A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert.

Dab (n.) A name given to several species of flounders, esp. to the European species, Pleuronectes limanda. The American rough dab is Hippoglossoides platessoides.

Dabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Dab

Dabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dab

Dab (v. i.) To strike or touch gently, as with a soft or moist substance; to tap; hence, to besmear with a dabber.

Dab (v. i.) To strike by a thrust; to hit with a sudden blow or thrust.

Dab (n.) A gentle blow with the hand or some soft substance; a sudden blow or hit; a peck.

Dab (n.) A small mass of anything soft or moist.

Dabb (n.) A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb.

Dabber (n.) That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates with ink.

Dabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Dabble

Dabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dabble

Dabble (v. t.) To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to moisten; to wet.

Dabble (v. i.) To play in water, as with the hands; to paddle or splash in mud or water.

Dabble (v. i.) To work in slight or superficial manner; to do in a small way; to tamper; to meddle.

Dabbler (n.) One who dabbles.

Dabbler (n.) One who dips slightly into anything; a superficial meddler.

Dabblingly (adv.) In a dabbling manner.

Dabchick (n.) A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, and pied-billed grebe.

Daboia (n.) A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica).

Dabster (n.) One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; an adept.

Dacapo () From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the first strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain so repeated.

Dace (n.) A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or Leuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.

Dachshund (n.) One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and long body; -- called also badger dog. There are two kinds, the rough-haired and the smooth-haired.

Dacian (a.) Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.

Dacian (n.) A native of ancient Dacia.

Dacoit (n.) One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs.

Dacoity (n.) The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed by dacoits.

Dacotahs (n. pl.) Same as Dacotas.

Dactyl (n.) A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followed by two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L. tegm/n/, E. mer\b6ciful; -- so called from the similarity of its arrangement to that of the joints of a finger.

Dactyl (n.) A finger or toe; a digit.

Dactyl (n.) The claw or terminal joint of a leg of an insect or crustacean.

Dactylar (a.) Pertaining to dactyl; dactylic.

Dactylar (a.) Of or pertaining to a finger or toe, or to the claw of an insect crustacean.

Dactylet (n.) A dactyl.

Dactylic (a.) Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as, dactylic verses.

Dactylic (n.) A line consisting chiefly or wholly of dactyls; as, these lines are dactylics.

Dactylic (n.) Dactylic meters.

Dactylioglyph (n.) An engraver of gems for rings and other ornaments.

Dactylioglyph (n.) The inscription of the engraver's name on a finger ring or gem.

Dactylioglyphi (n.) The art or process of gem engraving.

Dactyliography (n.) The art of writing or engraving upon gems.

Dactyliography (n.) In general, the literature or history of the art.

Dactyliology (n.) That branch of archaeology which has to do with gem engraving.

Dactyliology (n.) That branch of archaeology which has to do with finger rings.

Dactyliomancy (n.) Divination by means of finger rings.

Dactylist (n.) A writer of dactylic verse.

Dactylitis (n.) An inflammatory affection of the fingers.

Dactylology (n.) The art of communicating ideas by certain movements and positions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by the deaf and dumb.

Dactylomancy (n.) Dactyliomancy.

Dactylonomy (n.) The art of numbering or counting by the fingers.

Dactylopterous (a.) Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially or entirely free, as in the gurnards.

Dactylotheca (n.) The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds.

Dactylozooid (n.) A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or even vermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth. See Siphonophora.

Dad (n.) Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.

Daddled (imp. & p. p.) of Dadle

Daddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dadle

Dadle (v. i.) To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man; hence, to do anything slowly or feebly.

Daddock (n.) The rotten body of a tree.

Daddy (n.) Diminutive of Dad.

Daddy longlegs () An arachnidan of the genus Phalangium, and allied genera, having a small body and four pairs of long legs; -- called also harvestman, carter, and grandfather longlegs.

Daddy longlegs () A name applied to many species of dipterous insects of the genus Tipula, and allied genera, with slender bodies, and very long, slender legs; the crane fly; -- called also father longlegs.

Dade (v. t.) To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while he toddles.

Dade (v. i.) To walk unsteadily, as a child in leading strings, or just learning to walk; to move slowly.

Dadoes (pl. ) of Dado

Dado (n.) That part of a pedestal included between the base and the cornice (or surbase); the die. See Illust. of Column.

Dado (n.) In any wall, that part of the basement included between the base and the base course. See Base course, under Base.

Dado (n.) In interior decoration, the lower part of the wall of an apartment when adorned with moldings, or otherwise specially decorated.

Daedal (a.) Alt. of Daedalian

Daedalian (a.) Cunningly or ingeniously formed or working; skillful; artistic; ingenious.

Daedalian (a.) Crafty; deceitful.

Daedalous (a.) Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.

Daemon (a.) Alt. of Daemonic

Daemonic (a.) See Demon, Demonic.

Daff (v. t.) To cast aside; to put off; to doff.

Daff (n.) A stupid, blockish fellow; a numskull.

Daff (v. i.) To act foolishly; to be foolish or sportive; to toy.

Daff (v. t.) To daunt.

Daffodil (n.) A plant of the genus Asphodelus.

Daffodil (n.) A plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Pseudo-narcissus). It has a bulbous root and beautiful flowers, usually of a yellow hue. Called also daffodilly, daffadilly, daffadowndilly, daffydowndilly, etc.

Daft (a.) Stupid; foolish; idiotic; also, delirious; insane; as, he has gone daft.

Daft (a.) Gay; playful; frolicsome.

Daftness (n.) The quality of being daft.

Dag (n.) A dagger; a poniard.

Dag (n.) A large pistol formerly used.

Dag (n.) The unbranched antler of a young deer.

Dag (n.) A misty shower; dew.

Dag (n.) A loose end; a dangling shred.

Dag (v. t.) To daggle or bemire.

Dag (v. t.) To cut into jags or points; to slash; as, to dag a garment.

Dag (v. i.) To be misty; to drizzle.

Dagger (n.) A short weapon used for stabbing. This is the general term: cf. Poniard, Stiletto, Bowie knife, Dirk, Misericorde, Anlace.

Dagger (n.) A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [/]. It is the second in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; -- called also obelisk.

Dagger (v. t.) To pierce with a dagger; to stab.

Dagger (n.) A timber placed diagonally in a ship's frame.

Dagges (n. pl.) An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans.

Daggled (imp. & p. p.) of Daggle

Daggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daggle

Daggle (v. t.) To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to moisten.

Daggle (v. i.) To run, go, or trail one's self through water, mud, or slush; to draggle.

Daggle-tail (a.) Alt. of Daggle-tailed

Daggle-tailed (a.) Having the lower ends of garments defiled by trailing in mire or filth; draggle-tailed.

Daggle-tail (n.) A slovenly woman; a slattern; a draggle-tail.

Daglock (n.) A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock.

Dagos (pl. ) of Dago

Dago (n.) A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension, Portuguese or Italian) descent.

Dagoba (n.) A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some Buddhist saint.

Dagon () The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish.

Dagon (n.) A slip or piece.

Dagswain (n.) A coarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool.

Dag-tailed (a.) Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks.

Daguerrean (a.) Alt. of Daguerreian

Daguerreian (a.) Pertaining to Daguerre, or to his invention of the daguerreotype.

Daguerreotype (n.) An early variety of photograph, produced on a silver plate, or copper plate covered with silver, and rendered sensitive by the action of iodine, or iodine and bromine, on which, after exposure in the camera, the latent image is developed by the vapor of mercury.

Daguerreotype (n.) The process of taking such pictures.

Daguerreotyped (imp. & p. p.) of Daguerreotype

Daguerreotyping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daguerreotype

Daguerreotype (v. t.) To produce or represent by the daguerreotype process, as a picture.

Daguerreotype (v. t.) To impress with great distinctness; to imprint; to imitate exactly.

Daguerreotyper (n.) Alt. of Daguerreotypist

Daguerreotypist (n.) One who takes daguerreotypes.

Daguerreotypy (n.) The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre.

Dahabeah (n.) A Nile boat constructed on the model of a floating house, having large lateen sails.

Dahlias (pl. ) of Dahlia

Dahlia (n.) A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the order Compositae; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerous varieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differ in color.

Dahlin (n.) A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also inulin. See Inulin.

Dailiness (n.) Daily occurence.

Daily (a.) Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin.

Dailies (pl. ) of Daily

Daily (n.) A publication which appears regularly every day; as, the morning dailies.

Daily (adv.) Every day; day by day; as, a thing happens daily.

Daimios (pl. ) of Daimio

Daimio (n.) The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.

Daint (n.) Something of exquisite taste; a dainty.

Daint (a.) Dainty.

Daintified (imp. & p. p.) of Daintify

Daintifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daintify

Daintify (v. t.) To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious.

Daintily (adv.) In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously; deliciously; prettily.

Daintiness (n.) The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance; delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness.

Daintrel (n.) Adelicacy.

Dainties (pl. ) of Dainty

Dainty (n.) Value; estimation; the gratification or pleasure taken in anything.

Dainty (n.) That which is delicious or delicate; a delicacy.

Dainty (n.) A term of fondness.

Dainty (superl.) Rare; valuable; costly.

Dainty (superl.) Delicious to the palate; toothsome.

Dainty (superl.) Nice; delicate; elegant, in form, manner, or breeding; well-formed; neat; tender.

Dainty (superl.) Requiring dainties. Hence: Overnice; hard to please; fastidious; squeamish; scrupulous; ceremonious.

Dairies (pl. ) of Dairy

Dairy (n.) The place, room, or house where milk is kept, and converted into butter or cheese.

Dairy (n.) That department of farming which is concerned in the production of milk, and its conversion into butter and cheese.

Dairy (n.) A dairy farm.

Dairying (n.) The business of conducting a dairy.

Dairymaid (n.) A female servant whose business is the care of the dairy.

Dairymen (pl. ) of Dairyman

Dairyman (n.) A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy.

Dairywomen (pl. ) of Dairywoman

Dairywoman (n.) A woman who attends to a dairy.

Dais (n.) The high or principal table, at the end of a hall, at which the chief guests were seated; also, the chief seat at the high table.

Dais (n.) A platform slightly raised above the floor of a hall or large room, giving distinction to the table and seats placed upon it for the chief guests.

Dais (n.) A canopy over the seat of a person of dignity.

Daisied (a.) Full of daisies; adorned with daisies.

Daisies (pl. ) of Daisy

Daisy (n.) A genus of low herbs (Bellis), belonging to the family Compositae. The common English and classical daisy is B. prennis, which has a yellow disk and white or pinkish rays.

Daisy (n.) The whiteweed (Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum), the plant commonly called daisy in North America; -- called also oxeye daisy. See Whiteweed.

Dak (n.) Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- spelt also dawk, and dauk.

Daker (n.) Alt. of Dakir

Dakir (n.) A measure of certain commodities by number, usually ten or twelve, but sometimes twenty; as, a daker of hides consisted of ten skins; a daker of gloves of ten pairs.

Daker hen () The corncrake or land rail.

Dakoit (n.) Alt. of Dakoity

Dakoity (n.) See Dacoit, Dacoity.

Dakota group () A subdivision at the base of the cretaceous formation in Western North America; -- so named from the region where the strata were first studied.

Dakotas (n. pl) An extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes, mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part, called Sioux.

Dal (n.) Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus.

Dale (n.) A low place between hills; a vale or valley.

Dale (n.) A trough or spout to carry off water, as from a pump.

Dalesmen (pl. ) of Dalesman

Dalesman (n.) One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to the inhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc.

Dalf () imp. of Delve.

Dalliance (n.) The act of dallying, trifling, or fondling; interchange of caresses; wanton play.

Dalliance (n.) Delay or procrastination.

Dalliance (n.) Entertaining discourse.

Dallier (n.) One who fondles; a trifler; as, dalliers with pleasant words.

Dallop (n.) A tuft or clump.

Dallied (imp. & p. p.) of Dally

Dallying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dally

Dally (v. i.) To waste time in effeminate or voluptuous pleasures, or in idleness; to fool away time; to delay unnecessarily; to tarry; to trifle.

Dally (v. i.) To interchange caresses, especially with one of the opposite sex; to use fondling; to wanton; to sport.

Dally (v. t.) To delay unnecessarily; to while away.

Dalmania (n.) A genus of trilobites, of many species, common in the Upper Silurian and Devonian rocks.

Dalmanites (n.) Same as Dalmania.

Dalmatian (a.) Of or pertaining to Dalmatia.

Dalmatica (n.) Alt. of Dalmatic

Dalmatic (n.) A vestment with wide sleeves, and with two stripes, worn at Mass by deacons, and by bishops at pontifical Mass; -- imitated from a dress originally worn in Dalmatia.

Dalmatic (n.) A robe worn on state ocasions, as by English kings at their coronation.

Dal segno () A direction to go back to the sign / and repeat from thence to the close. See Segno.

Daltonian (n.) One afflicted with color blindness.

Daltonism (n.) Inability to perceive or distinguish certain colors, esp. red; color blindness. It has various forms and degrees. So called from the chemist Dalton, who had this infirmity.

Dam (n.) A female parent; -- used of beasts, especially of quadrupeds; sometimes applied in contempt to a human mother.

Dam (n.) A kind or crowned piece in the game of draughts.

Dam (n.) A barrier to prevent the flow of a liquid; esp., a bank of earth, or wall of any kind, as of masonry or wood, built across a water course, to confine and keep back flowing water.

Dam (n.) A firebrick wall, or a stone, which forms the front of the hearth of a blast furnace.

Dammed (imp. & p. p.) of Dam

Damming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dam

Dam (v. t.) To obstruct or restrain the flow of, by a dam; to confine by constructing a dam, as a stream of water; -- generally used with in or up.

Dam (v. t.) To shut up; to stop up; to close; to restrain.

Damage (n.) Injury or harm to person, property, or reputation; an inflicted loss of value; detriment; hurt; mischief.

Damage (n.) The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injury sustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party, for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another.

Damages (imp. & p. p.) of Damage

Damaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Damage

Damage (n.) To ocassion damage to the soudness, goodness, or value of; to hurt; to injure; to impair.

Damage (v. i.) To receive damage or harm; to be injured or impaired in soudness or value; as. some colors in /oth damage in sunlight.

Damageable (a.) Capable of being injured or impaired; liable to, or susceptible of, damage; as, a damageable cargo.

Damageable (a.) Hurtful; pernicious.

Damage feasant () Doing injury; trespassing, as cattle.

Daman (n.) A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The species found in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of Northern Africa is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit. See Cony, and Hyrax.

Damar (n.) See Dammar.

Damascene (a.) Of or relating to Damascus.

Damascene (n.) A kind of plume, now called damson. See Damson.

Damascene (v. t.) Same as Damask, or Damaskeen, v. t.

Damascus (n.) A city of Syria.

Damask (n.) Damask silk; silk woven with an elaborate pattern of flowers and the like.

Damask (n.) Linen so woven that a pattern in produced by the different directions of the thread, without contrast of color.

Damask (n.) A heavy woolen or worsted stuff with a pattern woven in the same way as the linen damask; -- made for furniture covering and hangings.

Damask (n.) Damask or Damascus steel; also, the peculiar markings or water of such steel.

Damask (n.) A deep pink or rose color.

Damask (a.) Pertaining to, or originating at, the city of Damascus; resembling the products or manufactures of Damascus.

Damask (a.) Having the color of the damask rose.

Damasked (imp. & p. p.) of Damask

Damasking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Damask

Damask (v. t.) To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed to Damascus; particularly: (a) with flowers and rich designs, as silk; (b) with inlaid lines of gold, etc., or with a peculiar marking or water, as metal. See Damaskeen.

Damaskeen (v.) Alt. of Damasken

Damasken (v.) To decorate, as iron, steel, etc., with a peculiar marking or water produced in the process of manufacture, or with designs produced by inlaying or incrusting with another metal, as silver or gold, or by etching, etc., to damask.

Damaskin (n.) A sword of Damask steel.

Damasse (a.) Woven like damask.

Damasse (n.) A damasse fabric, esp. one of linen.

Damassin (n.) A kind of modified damask or brocade.

Dambonite (n.) A white, crystalline, sugary substance obtained from an African caoutchouc.

Dambose (n.) A crystalline variety of fruit sugar obtained from dambonite.

Dame (n.) A mistress of a family, who is a lady; a woman in authority; especially, a lady.

Dame (n.) The mistress of a family in common life, or the mistress of a common school; as, a dame's school.

Dame (n.) A woman in general, esp. an elderly woman.

Dame (n.) A mother; -- applied to human beings and quadrupeds.

Damewort (n.) A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for its fragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called also rocket and dame's violet.

Damiana (n.) A Mexican drug, used as an aphrodisiac.

Damianist (n.) A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6th century, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the Holy Trinity.

Dammar (n.) Alt. of Dammara

Dammara (n.) An oleoresin used in making varnishes; dammar gum; dammara resin. It is obtained from certain resin trees indigenous to the East Indies, esp. Shorea robusta and the dammar pine.

Dammara (n.) A large tree of the order Coniferae, indigenous to the East Indies and Australasia; -- called also Agathis. There are several species.

Damned (imp. & p. p.) of Damn

Damning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Damn

Damn (v. t.) To condemn; to declare guilty; to doom; to adjudge to punishment; to sentence; to censure.

Damn (v. t.) To doom to punishment in the future world; to consign to perdition; to curse.

Damn (v. t.) To condemn as bad or displeasing, by open expression, as by denuciation, hissing, hooting, etc.

Damn (v. i.) To invoke damnation; to curse.

Damnability (n.) The quality of being damnable; damnableness.

Damnable (a.) Liable to damnation; deserving, or for which one deserves, to be damned; of a damning nature.

Damnable (a.) Odious; pernicious; detestable.

Damnableness (n.) The state or quality of deserving damnation; execrableness.

Damnably (adv.) In a manner to incur severe censure, condemnation, or punishment.

Damnably (adv.) Odiously; detestably; excessively.

Damnation (n.) The state of being damned; condemnation; openly expressed disapprobation.

Damnation (n.) Condemnation to everlasting punishment in the future state, or the punishment itself.

Damnation (n.) A sin deserving of everlasting punishment.

Damnatory (a.) Dooming to damnation; condemnatory.

Damned (a.) Sentenced to punishment in a future state; condemned; consigned to perdition.

Damned (a.) Hateful; detestable; abominable.

Damnific (a.) Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious.

Damnification (n.) That which causes damage or loss.

Damnify (v. t.) To cause loss or damage to; to injure; to impair.

Damning (a.) That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt.

Damningness (n.) Tendency to bring damnation.

damnum (n.) Harm; detriment, either to character or property.

Damosel (n.) Alt. of Damoiselle

Damosella (n.) Alt. of Damoiselle

Damoiselle (n.) See Damsel.

Damourite (n.) A kind of Muscovite, or potash mica, containing water.

Damp (n.) Moisture; humidity; fog; fogginess; vapor.

Damp (n.) Dejection; depression; cloud of the mind.

Damp (n.) A gaseous product, formed in coal mines, old wells, pints, etc.

Damp (superl.) Being in a state between dry and wet; moderately wet; moist; humid.

Damp (superl.) Dejected; depressed; sunk.

Damped (imp. & p. p.) of Damp

Damping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Damp

Damp (n.) To render damp; to moisten; to make humid, or moderately wet; to dampen; as, to damp cloth.

Damp (n.) To put out, as fire; to depress or deject; to deaden; to cloud; to check or restrain, as action or vigor; to make dull; to weaken; to discourage.

Dampened (imp. & p. p.) of Dampen

Dampening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dampen

Dampen (v. t.) To make damp or moist; to make slightly wet.

Dampen (v. t.) To depress; to check; to make dull; to lessen.

Dampen (v. i.) To become damp; to deaden.

Damper (n.) That which damps or checks; as: (a) A valve or movable plate in the flue or other part of a stove, furnace, etc., used to check or regulate the draught of air. (b) A contrivance, as in a pianoforte, to deaden vibrations; or, as in other pieces of mechanism, to check some action at a particular time.

Dampish (a.) Moderately damp or moist.

Dampne (v. t.) To damn.

Dampness (n.) Moderate humidity; moisture; fogginess; moistness.

Damp off () To decay and perish through excessive moisture.

Dampy (a.) Somewhat damp.

Dampy (a.) Dejected; gloomy; sorrowful.

Damsel (n.) A young person, either male or female, of noble or gentle extraction; as, Damsel Pepin; Damsel Richard, Prince of Wales.

Damsel (n.) A young unmarried woman; a girl; a maiden.

Damsel (n.) An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hopper.

Damson (n.) A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety of the Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum.

Dan (n.) A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir.

Dan (n.) A small truck or sledge used in coal mines.

Danaide (n.) A water wheel having a vertical axis, and an inner and outer tapering shell, between which are vanes or floats attached usually to both shells, but sometimes only to one.

Danaite (n.) A cobaltiferous variety of arsenopyrite.

Danalite (n.) A mineral occuring in octahedral crystals, also massive, of a reddish color. It is a silicate of iron, zinc manganese, and glucinum, containing sulphur.

Danburite (n.) A borosilicate of lime, first found at Danbury, Conn. It is near the topaz in form.

Danced (imp. & p. p.) of Dance

Dancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dance

Dance (v. i.) To move with measured steps, or to a musical accompaniment; to go through, either alone or in company with others, with a regulated succession of movements, (commonly) to the sound of music; to trip or leap rhythmically.

Dance (v. i.) To move nimbly or merrily; to express pleasure by motion; to caper; to frisk; to skip about.

Dance (v. t.) To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up and down; to dandle.

Dance (v. i.) The leaping, tripping, or measured stepping of one who dances; an amusement, in which the movements of the persons are regulated by art, in figures and in accord with music.

Dance (v. i.) A tune by which dancing is regulated, as the minuet, the waltz, the cotillon, etc.

Dancer (n.) One who dances or who practices dancing.

Danceress (n.) A female dancer.

Dancette (a.) Deeply indented; having large teeth; thus, a fess dancette has only three teeth in the whole width of the escutcheon.

Dancing (p. a. & vb. n.) from Dance.

Dancy (a.) Same as Dancette.

Dandelion (n.) A well-known plant of the genus Taraxacum (T. officinale, formerly called T. Dens-leonis and Leontodos Taraxacum) bearing large, yellow, compound flowers, and deeply notched leaves.

Dander (n.) Dandruff or scurf on the head.

Dander (n.) Anger or vexation; rage.

Dander (v. i.) To wander about; to saunter; to talk incoherently.

Dandi (n.) A boatman; an oarsman.

Dandie (n.) One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also Dandie Dinmont.

Dandified (a.) Made up like a dandy; having the dress or manners of a dandy; buckish.

Dandified (imp. & p. p.) of Dandify

Dandifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dandify

Dandify (v. t.) To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish.

Dandiprat (n.) A little fellow; -- in sport or contempt.

Dandiprat (n.) A small coin.

Dandled (imp. & p. p.) of Dandle

Dandling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dandle

Dandle (v. t.) To move up and down on one's knee or in one's arms, in affectionate play, as an infant.

Dandle (v. t.) To treat with fondness, as if a child; to fondle; to toy with; to pet.

Dandle (v. t.) To play with; to put off or delay by trifles; to wheedle.

Dandler (n.) One who dandles or fondles.

Dandriff (n.) See Dandruff.

Dandruff (n.) A scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small or particles.

Dandies (pl. ) of Dandy

Dandy (n.) One who affects special finery or gives undue attention to dress; a fop; a coxcomb.

Dandy (n.) A sloop or cutter with a jigger on which a lugsail is set.

Dandy (n.) A small sail carried at or near the stern of small boats; -- called also jigger, and mizzen.

Dandy (n.) A dandy roller. See below.

Dandy-cock (n. fem.) Alt. of Dandy-hen

Dandy-hen (n. fem.) A bantam fowl.

Dandyish (a.) Like a dandy.

Dandyism (n.) The manners and dress of a dandy; foppishness.

Dandyise (v. t. & i.) To make, or to act, like a dandy; to dandify.

Dandyling (n.) A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop.

Dane (n.) A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark.

Danegeld (n.) Alt. of Danegelt

Danegelt (n.) An annual tax formerly laid on the English nation to buy off the ravages of Danish invaders, or to maintain forces to oppose them. It afterward became a permanent tax, raised by an assessment, at first of one shilling, afterward of two shillings, upon every hide of land throughout the realm.

Danewort (n.) A fetid European species of elder (Sambucus Ebulus); dwarf elder; wallwort; elderwort; -- called also Daneweed, Dane's weed, and Dane's-blood. [Said to grow on spots where battles were fought against the Danes.]

Dang () imp. of Ding.

Dang (v. t.) To dash.

Danger (n.) Authority; jurisdiction; control.

Danger (n.) Power to harm; subjection or liability to penalty.

Danger (n.) Exposure to injury, loss, pain, or other evil; peril; risk; insecurity.

Danger (n.) Difficulty; sparingness.

Danger (n.) Coyness; disdainful behavior.

Danger (v. t.) To endanger.

Dangerful (a.) Full of danger; dangerous.

Dangerless (a.) Free from danger.

Dangerous (a.) Attended or beset with danger; full of risk; perilous; hazardous; unsafe.

Dangerous (a.) Causing danger; ready to do harm or injury.

Dangerous (a.) In a condition of danger, as from illness; threatened with death.

Dangerous (a.) Hard to suit; difficult to please.

Dangerous (a.) Reserved; not affable.

Dangled (imp. & p. p.) of Dangle

Dangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dangle

Dangle (v. i.) To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion.

Dangle (v. t.) To cause to dangle; to swing, as something suspended loosely; as, to dangle the feet.

Dangleberry (n.) A dark blue, edible berry with a white bloom, and its shrub (Gaylussacia frondosa) closely allied to the common huckleberry. The bush is also called blue tangle, and is found from New England to Kentucky, and southward.

Dangler (n.) One who dangles about or after others, especially after women; a trifler.

Daniel (n.) A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness of judgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge.

Danish (a.) Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country.

Danish (n.) The language of the Danes.

Danite (n.) A descendant of Dan; an Israelite of the tribe of Dan.

Danite (n.) One of a secret association of Mormons, bound by an oath to obey the heads of the church in all things.

Dank (a.) Damp; moist; humid; wet.

Dank (n.) Moisture; humidity; water.

Dank (n.) A small silver coin current in Persia.

Dankish (a.) Somewhat dank.

Dannebrog (n.) The ancient battle standard of Denmark, bearing figures of cross and crown.

Danseuse (n.) A professional female dancer; a woman who dances at a public exhibition as in a ballet.

Dansk (a.) Danish.

Dansker (n.) A Dane.

Dantean (a.) Relating to, emanating from or resembling, the poet Dante or his writings.

Dantesque (a.) Dantelike; Dantean.

Danubian (a.) Pertaining to, or bordering on, the river Danube.

Dap (v. i.) To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water.

Dapatical (a.) Sumptuous in cheer.

Daphne (n.) A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and with fragrant blossoms.

Daphne (n.) A nymph of Diana, fabled to have been changed into a laurel tree.

Daphnetin (n.) A colorless crystalline substance, C9H6O4, extracted from daphnin.

Daphnia (n.) A genus of the genus Daphnia.

Daphnin (n.) A dark green bitter resin extracted from the mezereon (Daphne mezereum) and regarded as the essential principle of the plant.

Daphnin (n.) A white, crystalline, bitter substance, regarded as a glucoside, and extracted from Daphne mezereum and D. alpina.

Daphnomancy (n.) Divination by means of the laurel.

Dapifer (n.) One who brings meat to the table; hence, in some countries, the official title of the grand master or steward of the king's or a nobleman's household.

Dapper (a.) Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or appearance; lively.

Dapperling (n.) A dwarf; a dandiprat.

Dapple (n.) One of the spots on a dappled animal.

Dapple (a.) Alt. of Dappled

Dappled (a.) Marked with spots of different shades of color; spotted; variegated; as, a dapple horse.

Dappled (imp. & p. p.) of Dapple

Dappling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dapple

Dapple (v. t.) To variegate with spots; to spot.

Darbies (n. pl.) Manacles; handcuffs.

Darby (n.) A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothing ceilings, etc.

Darbyite (n.) One of the Plymouth Brethren, or of a sect among them; -- so called from John N. Darby, one of the leaders of the Brethren.

Dardanian (a. & n.) Trojan.

Durst (imp.) of Dare

Dared () of Dare

Dared (p. p.) of Dare

Daring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dare

Dare (v. i.) To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to be bold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture.

Dared (imp. & p. p.) of Dare

Daring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dare

Dare (v. t.) To have courage for; to attempt courageously; to venture to do or to undertake.

Dare (v. t.) To challenge; to provoke; to defy.

Dare (n.) The quality of daring; venturesomeness; boldness; dash.

Dare (n.) Defiance; challenge.

Dare (v. i.) To lurk; to lie hid.

Dare (v. t.) To terrify; to daunt.

Dare (n.) A small fish; the dace.

Dare-devil (n.) A reckless fellow. Also used adjectively; as, dare-devil excitement.

Dare-deviltries (pl. ) of Dare-deviltry

Dare-deviltry (n) Reckless mischief; the action of a dare-devil.

Dareful (a.) Full of daring or of defiance; adventurous.

Darer (n.) One who dares or defies.

Darg (n.) Alt. of Dargue

Dargue (n.) A day's work; also, a fixed amount of work, whether more or less than that of a day.

Daric (n.) A gold coin of ancient Persia, weighing usually a little more than 128 grains, and bearing on one side the figure of an archer.

Daric (n.) A silver coin of about 86 grains, having the figure of an archer, and hence, in modern times, called a daric.

Daric (n.) Any very pure gold coin.

Daring (n.) Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act.

Daring (a.) Bold; fearless; adventurous; as, daring spirits.

Dark (a.) Destitute, or partially destitute, of light; not receiving, reflecting, or radiating light; wholly or partially black, or of some deep shade of color; not light-colored; as, a dark room; a dark day; dark cloth; dark paint; a dark complexion.

Dark (a.) Not clear to the understanding; not easily seen through; obscure; mysterious; hidden.

Dark (a.) Destitute of knowledge and culture; in moral or intellectual darkness; unrefined; ignorant.

Dark (a.) Evincing black or foul traits of character; vile; wicked; atrocious; as, a dark villain; a dark deed.

Dark (a.) Foreboding evil; gloomy; jealous; suspicious.

Dark (a.) Deprived of sight; blind.

Dark (n.) Absence of light; darkness; obscurity; a place where there is little or no light.

Dark (n.) The condition of ignorance; gloom; secrecy.

Dark (n.) A dark shade or dark passage in a painting, engraving, or the like; as, the light and darks are well contrasted.

Dark (v. t.) To darken to obscure.

Darkened (imp. & p. p.) of Darken

Darkening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Darken

Darken (a.) To make dark or black; to deprive of light; to obscure; as, a darkened room.

Darken (a.) To render dim; to deprive of vision.

Darken (a.) To cloud, obscure, or perplex; to render less clear or intelligible.

Darken (a.) To cast a gloom upon.

Darken (a.) To make foul; to sully; to tarnish.

Darken (v. i.) To grow or darker.

Darkener (n.) One who, or that which, darkens.

Darkening (n.) Twilight; gloaming.

Darkful (a.) Full of darkness.

Darkish (a.) Somewhat dark; dusky.

Darkle (v. i.) To grow dark; to show indistinctly.

Darkling (adv.) In the dark.

Darkling (p. pr. & a.) Becoming dark or gloomy; frowing.

Darkling (p. pr. & a.) Dark; gloomy.

Darkly (adv.) With imperfect light, clearness, or knowledge; obscurely; dimly; blindly; uncertainly.

Darkly (adv.) With a dark, gloomy, cruel, or menacing look.

Darkness (n.) The absence of light; blackness; obscurity; gloom.

Darkness (n.) A state of privacy; secrecy.

Darkness (n.) A state of ignorance or error, especially on moral or religious subjects; hence, wickedness; impurity.

Darkness (n.) Want of clearness or perspicuity; obscurity; as, the darkness of a subject, or of a discussion.

Darkness (n.) A state of distress or trouble.

Darksome (a.) Dark; gloomy; obscure; shaded; cheerless.

Darky (n.) A negro.

Darling (n.) One dearly beloved; a favorite.

Darling (a.) Dearly beloved; regarded with especial kindness and tenderness; favorite.

Darlingtonia (n.) A genus of California pitcher plants consisting of a single species. The long tubular leaves are hooded at the top, and frequently contain many insects drowned in the secretion of the leaves.

Darned (imp. & p. p.) of Darn

Darning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Darn

Darn (v. t.) To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn or thread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread.

Darn (n.) A place mended by darning.

Darn (v. t.) A colloquial euphemism for Damn.

Darnel (n.) Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum (bearded darnel), the grains of which have been reputed poisonous. Other species, as Lolium perenne (rye grass or ray grass), and its variety L. Italicum (Italian rye grass), are highly esteemed for pasture and for making hay.

Darner (n.) One who mends by darning.

Darnex (n.) Alt. of Darnic

Darnic (n.) Same as Dornick.

Daroo (n.) The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus). See Sycamore.

Darr (n.) The European black tern.

Darraign (v. t.) Alt. of Darrain

Darrain (v. t.) To make ready to fight; to array.

Darrain (v. t.) To fight out; to contest; to decide by combat.

Darrein (a.) Last; as, darrein continuance, the last continuance.

Dart (n.) A pointed missile weapon, intended to be thrown by the hand; a short lance; a javelin; hence, any sharp-pointed missile weapon, as an arrow.

Dart (n.) Anything resembling a dart; anything that pierces or wounds like a dart.

Dart (n.) A spear set as a prize in running.

Dart (n.) A fish; the dace. See Dace.

Darted (imp. & p. p.) of Dart

Darting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dart

Dart (v. t.) To throw with a sudden effort or thrust, as a dart or other missile weapon; to hurl or launch.

Dart (v. t.) To throw suddenly or rapidly; to send forth; to emit; to shoot; as, the sun darts forth his beams.

Dart (v. i.) To fly or pass swiftly, as a dart.

Dart (v. i.) To start and run with velocity; to shoot rapidly along; as, the deer darted from the thicket.

Dartars (n.) A kind of scab or ulceration on the skin of lambs.

Darter (n.) One who darts, or who throw darts; that which darts.

Darter (n.) The snakebird, a water bird of the genus Plotus; -- so called because it darts out its long, snakelike neck at its prey. See Snakebird.

Darter (n.) A small fresh-water etheostomoid fish. The group includes numerous genera and species, all of them American. See Etheostomoid.

Dartingly (adv.) Like a dart; rapidly.

Dartle (v. t. & i.) To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly: -- frequentative of dart.

Dartoic (a.) Of or pertaining to the dartos.

Dartoid (a.) Like the dartos; dartoic; as, dartoid tissue.

Dartos (n.) A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneath the skin of the scrotum.

Dartrous (a.) Relating to, or partaking of the nature of, the disease called tetter; herpetic.

Darwinian (a.) Pertaining to Darwin; as, the Darwinian theory, a theory of the manner and cause of the supposed development of living things from certain original forms or elements.

Darwinian (n.) An advocate of Darwinism.

Darwinianism (n.) Darwinism.

Darwinism (n.) The theory or doctrines put forth by Darwin. See above.

Dase (v. t.) See Daze.

Dasewe (v. i.) To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled.

Dashed (imp. & p. p.) of Dash

Dashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dash

Dash (v. t.) To throw with violence or haste; to cause to strike violently or hastily; -- often used with against.

Dash (v. t.) To break, as by throwing or by collision; to shatter; to crust; to frustrate; to ruin.

Dash (v. t.) To put to shame; to confound; to confuse; to abash; to depress.

Dash (v. t.) To throw in or on in a rapid, careless manner; to mix, reduce, or adulterate, by throwing in something of an inferior quality; to overspread partially; to bespatter; to touch here and there; as, to dash wine with water; to dash paint upon a picture.

Dash (v. t.) To form or sketch rapidly or carelessly; to execute rapidly, or with careless haste; -- with off; as, to dash off a review or sermon.

Dash (v. t.) To erase by a stroke; to strike out; knock out; -- with out; as, to dash out a word.

Dash (v. i.) To rust with violence; to move impetuously; to strike violently; as, the waves dash upon rocks.

Dash (n.) Violent striking together of two bodies; collision; crash.

Dash (n.) A sudden check; abashment; frustration; ruin; as, his hopes received a dash.

Dash (n.) A slight admixture, infusion, or adulteration; a partial overspreading; as, wine with a dash of water; red with a dash of purple.

Dash (n.) A rapid movement, esp. one of short duration; a quick stroke or blow; a sudden onset or rush; as, a bold dash at the enemy; a dash of rain.

Dash (n.) Energy in style or action; animation; spirit.

Dash (n.) A vain show; a blustering parade; a flourish; as, to make or cut a great dash.

Dash (n.) A mark or line [--], in writing or printing, denoting a sudden break, stop, or transition in a sentence, or an abrupt change in its construction, a long or significant pause, or an unexpected or epigrammatic turn of sentiment. Dashes are also sometimes used instead of marks or parenthesis.

Dash (n.) The sign of staccato, a small mark [/] denoting that the note over which it is placed is to be performed in a short, distinct manner.

Dash (n.) The line drawn through a figure in the thorough bass, as a direction to raise the interval a semitone.

Dash (n.) A short, spirited effort or trial of speed upon a race course; -- used in horse racing, when a single trial constitutes the race.

Dashboard (n.) A board placed on the fore part of a carriage, sleigh, or other vehicle, to intercept water, mud, or snow, thrown up by the heels of the horses; -- in England commonly called splashboard.

Dashboard (n.) The float of a paddle wheel.

Dashboard (n.) A screen at the bow af a steam launch to keep off the spray; -- called also sprayboard.

Dasher (n.) That which dashes or agitates; as, the dasher of a churn.

Dasher (n.) A dashboard or splashboard.

Dasher (n.) One who makes an ostentatious parade.

Dashing (a.) Bold; spirited; showy.

Dashingly (adv.) Conspicuously; showily.

Dashism (n.) The character of making ostentatious or blustering parade or show.

Dashpot (n.) A pneumatic or hydraulic cushion for a falling weight, as in the valve gear of a steam engine, to prevent shock.

Dashy (a.) Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable; showy.

Dastard (n.) One who meanly shrinks from danger; an arrant coward; a poltroon.

Dastard (a.) Meanly shrinking from danger; cowardly; dastardly.

Dastard (v. t.) To dastardize.

Dastardized (imp. & p. p.) of Dastardize

Dastardizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dastardize

Dastardize (v. t.) To make cowardly; to intimidate; to dispirit; as, to dastardize my courage.

Dastardliness (n.) The quality of being dastardly; cowardice; base fear.

Dastardly (a.) Meanly timid; cowardly; base; as, a dastardly outrage.

Dastardness (n.) Dastardliness.

Dastardy (n.) Base timidity; cowardliness.

Daswe (v. i.) See Dasewe

Dasymeter (n.) An instrument for testing the density of gases, consisting of a thin glass globe, which is weighed in the gas or gases, and then in an atmosphere of known density.

Dasypaedal (a.) Dasypaedic.

Dasypaedes (n. pl.) Those birds whose young are covered with down when hatched.

Dasypaedic (a.) Pertaining to the Dasypaedes; ptilopaedic.

Dasyure (n.) A carnivorous marsupial quadruped of Australia, belonging to the genus Dasyurus. There are several species.

Dasyurine (a.) Pertaining to, or like, the dasyures.

Data (n. pl.) See Datum.

Datable (a.) That may be dated; having a known or ascertainable date.

Dataria (n.) Formerly, a part of the Roman chancery; now, a separate office from which are sent graces or favors, cognizable in foro externo, such as appointments to benefices. The name is derived from the word datum, given or dated (with the indications of the time and place of granting the gift or favor).

Datary (n.) An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria.

Datary (n.) The office or employment of a datary.

Date (n.) The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself.

Date (n.) That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc., which specifies the time (as day, month, and year) when the writing or inscription was given, or executed, or made; as, the date of a letter, of a will, of a deed, of a coin. etc.

Date (n.) The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place, or is appointed to take place; a given point of time; epoch; as, the date of a battle.

Date (n.) Assigned end; conclusion.

Date (n.) Given or assigned length of life; dyration.

Dated (imp. & p. p.) of Date

Dating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Date

Date (v. t.) To note the time of writing or executing; to express in an instrument the time of its execution; as, to date a letter, a bond, a deed, or a charter.

Date (v. t.) To note or fix the time of, as of an event; to give the date of; as, to date the building of the pyramids.

Date (v. i.) To have beginning; to begin; to be dated or reckoned; -- with from.

Dateless (a.) Without date; having no fixed time.

Dater (n.) One who dates.

Datiscin (n.) A white crystalline glucoside extracted from the bastard hemp (Datisca cannabina).

Dative (a.) Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object, and is generally indicated in English by to or for with the objective.

Dative (a.) In one's gift; capable of being disposed of at will and pleasure, as an office.

Dative (a.) Removable, as distinguished from perpetual; -- said of an officer.

Dative (a.) Given by a magistrate, as distinguished from being cast upon a party by the law.

Dative (n.) The dative case. See Dative, a., 1.

Datively (adv.) As a gift.

Datolite (n.) A borosilicate of lime commonly occuring in glassy,, greenish crystals.

Data (pl. ) of Datum

Datum (n.) Something given or admitted; a fact or principle granted; that upon which an inference or an argument is based; -- used chiefly in the plural.

Datum (n.) The quantities or relations which are assumed to be given in any problem.

Datura (n.) A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowers and a four-celled, capsular fruit.

Daturine (n.) Atropine; -- called also daturia and daturina.

Daubed (imp. & p. p.) of Daub

Daubing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daub

Daub (v. t.) To smear with soft, adhesive matter, as pitch, slime, mud, etc.; to plaster; to bedaub; to besmear.

Daub (v. t.) To paint in a coarse or unskillful manner.

Daub (v. t.) To cover with a specious or deceitful exterior; to disguise; to conceal.

Daub (v. t.) To flatter excessively or glossy.

Daub (v. t.) To put on without taste; to deck gaudily.

Daub (v. i.) To smear; to play the flatterer.

Daub (n.) A viscous, sticky application; a spot smeared or dabed; a smear.

Daub (n.) A picture coarsely executed.

Dauber (n.) One who, or that which, daubs; especially, a coarse, unskillful painter.

Dauber (n.) A pad or ball of rags, covered over with canvas, for inking plates; a dabber.

Dauber (n.) A low and gross flatterer.

Dauber (n.) The mud wasp; the mud dauber.

Daubery (n.) Alt. of Daubry

Daubry (n.) A daubing; specious coloring; false pretenses.

Daubing (n.) The act of one who daubs; that which is daubed.

Daubing (n.) A rough coat of mortar put upon a wall to give it the appearance of stone; rough-cast.

Daubing (n.) In currying, a mixture of fish oil and tallow worked into leather; -- called also dubbing.

Daubreelite (n.) A sulphide of chromium observed in some meteoric irons.

Dauby (a.) Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive.

Daughters (pl. ) of Daughter

Daughtren (pl. ) of Daughter

Daughter (n.) The female offspring of the human species; a female child of any age; -- applied also to the lower animals.

Daughter (n.) A female descendant; a woman.

Daughter (n.) A son's wife; a daughter-in-law.

Daughter (n.) A term of address indicating parental interest.

Daughters-in-law (pl. ) of Daughter-in-law

Daughter-in-law (n.) The wife of one's son.

Daughterliness (n.) The state of a daughter, or the conduct becoming a daughter.

Daughterly (a.) Becoming a daughter; filial.

Dauk (v. t.) See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush.

Daun (n.) A variant of Dan, a title of honor.

Daunted (imp. & p. p.) of Daunt

Daunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daunt

Daunt (v. t.) To overcome; to conquer.

Daunt (v. t.) To repress or subdue the courage of; to check by fear of danger; to cow; to intimidate; to dishearten.

Daunter (n.) One who daunts.

Dauntless (a.) Incapable of being daunted; undaunted; bold; fearless; intrepid.

Dauphin (n.) The title of the eldest son of the king of France, and heir to the crown. Since the revolution of 1830, the title has been discontinued.

Dauphiness (n.) Alt. of Dauphine

Dauphine (n.) The title of the wife of the dauphin.

Dauw (n.) The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa (Asinus Burchellii); -- called also peechi, or peetsi.

Davenport (n.) A kind of small writing table, generally somewhat ornamental, and forming a piece of furniture for the parlor or boudoir.

Davidic (a.) Of or pertaining to David, the king and psalmist of Israel, or to his family.

Davit (n.) A spar formerly used on board of ships, as a crane to hoist the flukes of the anchor to the top of the bow, without injuring the sides of the ship; -- called also the fish davit.

Davit (n.) Curved arms of timber or iron, projecting over a ship's side of stern, having tackle to raise or lower a boat, swing it in on deck, rig it out for lowering, etc.; -- called also boat davits.

Davy Jones () The spirit of the sea; sea devil; -- a term used by sailors.

Davy lamp () See Safety lamp, under Lamp.

Davyne (n.) A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius.

Davyum (n.) A rare metallic element found in platinum ore. It is a white malleable substance. Symbol Da. Atomic weight 154.

Daw (n.) A European bird of the Crow family (Corvus monedula), often nesting in church towers and ruins; a jackdaw.

Daw (v. i.) To dawn.

Daw (v. t.) To rouse.

Daw (v. t.) To daunt; to terrify.

Dawdled (imp. & p. p.) of Dawdle

Dawdling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dawdle

Dawdle (v. i.) To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter.

Dawdle (v. t.) To waste by trifling; as, to dawdle away a whole morning.

Dawdle (n.) A dawdler.

Dawdler (n.) One who wastes time in trifling employments; an idler; a trifler.

Dawe (n.) Day.

Dawish (a.) Like a daw.

Dawk (n.) See Dak.

Dawk (v. t.) To cut or mark with an incision; to gash.

Dawk (n.) A hollow, crack, or cut, in timber.

Dawned (imp. & p. p.) of Dawn

Dawning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dawn

Dawn (v. i.) To begin to grow light in the morning; to grow light; to break, or begin to appear; as, the day dawns; the morning dawns.

Dawn (v. i.) To began to give promise; to begin to appear or to expand.

Dawn (n.) The break of day; the first appearance of light in the morning; show of approaching sunrise.

Dawn (n.) First opening or expansion; first appearance; beginning; rise.

Dawsonite (n.) A hydrous carbonate of alumina and soda, occuring in white, bladed crustals.

Day (n.) The time of light, or interval between one night and the next; the time between sunrise and sunset, or from dawn to darkness; hence, the light; sunshine.

Day (n.) The period of the earth's revolution on its axis. -- ordinarily divided into twenty-four hours. It is measured by the interval between two successive transits of a celestial body over the same meridian, and takes a specific name from that of the body. Thus, if this is the sun, the day (the interval between two successive transits of the sun's center over the same meridian) is called a solar day; if it is a star, a sidereal day; if it is the moon, a lunar day. See Civil day, Sidereal day, below.

Day (n.) Those hours, or the daily recurring period, allotted by usage or law for work.

Day (n.) A specified time or period; time, considered with reference to the existence or prominence of a person or thing; age; time.

Day (n.) (Preceded by the) Some day in particular, as some day of contest, some anniversary, etc.

Dayaks (n. pl.) See Dyaks.

Daybook (n.) A journal of accounts; a primary record book in which are recorded the debts and credits, or accounts of the day, in their order, and from which they are transferred to the journal.

Daybreak (n.) The time of the first appearance of light in the morning.

Day-coal (n.) The upper stratum of coal, as nearest the light or surface.

Daydream (n.) A vain fancy speculation; a reverie; a castle in the air; unfounded hope.

Daydreamer (n.) One given to daydreams.

Dayflower (n.) A genus consisting mostly of tropical perennial herbs (Commelina), having ephemeral flowers.

Dayfly (n.) A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera, of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; the ephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day in the winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.

Day-labor (n.) Labor hired or performed by the day.

Day-laborer (n.) One who works by the day; -- usually applied to a farm laborer, or to a workman who does not work at any particular trade.

Daylight (n.) The light of day as opposed to the darkness of night; the light of the sun, as opposed to that of the moon or to artificial light.

Daylight (n.) The eyes.

Day lily () A genus of plants (Hemerocallis) closely resembling true lilies, but having tuberous rootstocks instead of bulbs. The common species have long narrow leaves and either yellow or tawny-orange flowers.

Day lily () A genus of plants (Funkia) differing from the last in having ovate veiny leaves, and large white or blue flowers.

Daymaid (n.) A dairymaid.

Daymare (n.) A kind of incubus which occurs during wakefulness, attended by the peculiar pressure on the chest which characterizes nightmare.

Day-net (n.) A net for catching small birds.

Day-peep (n.) The dawn.

Daysman (n.) An umpire or arbiter; a mediator.

Dayspring (n.) The beginning of the day, or first appearance of light; the dawn; hence, the beginning.

Day-star (n.) The morning star; the star which ushers in the day.

Day-star (n.) The sun, as the orb of day.

Daytime (n.) The time during which there is daylight, as distinguished from the night.

Daywoman (n.) A dairymaid.

Dazed (imp. & p. p.) of Daze

Dazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daze

Daze (v. t.) To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb.

Daze (n.) The state of being dazed; as, he was in a daze.

Daze (n.) A glittering stone.

Dazzled (imp. & p. p.) of Dazzle

Dazzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dazzle

Dazzle (v. t.) To overpower with light; to confuse the sight of by brilliance of light.

Dazzle (v. t.) To bewilder or surprise with brilliancy or display of any kind.

Dazzle (v. i.) To be overpoweringly or intensely bright; to excite admiration by brilliancy.

Dazzle (v. i.) To be overpowered by light; to be confused by excess of brightness.

Dazzle (n.) A light of dazzling brilliancy.

Dazzlement (n.) Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light.

Dazzlingly (adv.) In a dazzling manner.

De- () A prefix from Latin de down, from, away; as in debark, decline, decease, deduct, decamp. In words from the French it is equivalent to Latin dis-apart, away; or sometimes to de. Cf. Dis-. It is negative and opposite in derange, deform, destroy, etc. It is intensive in deprave, despoil, declare, desolate, etc.

Deacon (n.) An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certain subordinate duties varying in different communions. In the Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowest order in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. In Presbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders, and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion service and the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he is subordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterian church.

Deacon (n.) The chairman of an incorporated company.

Deacon (v. t.) To read aloud each line of (a psalm or hymn) before singing it, -- usually with off.

Deaconess (n.) A female deacon

Deaconess (n.) One of an order of women whose duties resembled those of deacons.

Deaconess (n.) A woman set apart for church work by a bishop.

Deaconess (n.) A woman chosen as a helper in church work, as among the Congregationalists.

Deaconhood (n.) The state of being a deacon; office of a deacon; deaconship.

Deaconry (n.) See Deaconship.

Deaconship (n.) The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess.

Dead (a.) Deprived of life; -- opposed to alive and living; reduced to that state of a being in which the organs of motion and life have irrevocably ceased to perform their functions; as, a dead tree; a dead man.

Dead (a.) Destitute of life; inanimate; as, dead matter.

Dead (a.) Resembling death in appearance or quality; without show of life; deathlike; as, a dead sleep.

Dead (a.) Still as death; motionless; inactive; useless; as, dead calm; a dead load or weight.

Dead (a.) So constructed as not to transmit sound; soundless; as, a dead floor.

Dead (a.) Unproductive; bringing no gain; unprofitable; as, dead capital; dead stock in trade.

Dead (a.) Lacking spirit; dull; lusterless; cheerless; as, dead eye; dead fire; dead color, etc.

Dead (a.) Monotonous or unvaried; as, a dead level or pain; a dead wall.

Dead (a.) Sure as death; unerring; fixed; complete; as, a dead shot; a dead certainty.

Dead (a.) Bringing death; deadly.

Dead (a.) Wanting in religious spirit and vitality; as, dead faith; dead works.

Dead (a.) Flat; without gloss; -- said of painting which has been applied purposely to have this effect.

Dead (a.) Not brilliant; not rich; thus, brown is a dead color, as compared with crimson.

Dead (a.) Cut off from the rights of a citizen; deprived of the power of enjoying the rights of property; as, one banished or becoming a monk is civilly dead.

Dead (a.) Not imparting motion or power; as, the dead spindle of a lathe, etc. See Spindle.

Dead (adv.) To a degree resembling death; to the last degree; completely; wholly.

Dead (n.) The most quiet or deathlike time; the period of profoundest repose, inertness, or gloom; as, the dead of winter.

Dead (n.) One who is dead; -- commonly used collectively.

Dead (v. t.) To make dead; to deaden; to deprive of life, force, or vigor.

Dead (v. i.) To die; to lose life or force.

Dead beat () See Beat, n., 7.

Deadbeat (a.) Making a beat without recoil; giving indications by a single beat or excursion; -- said of galvanometers and other instruments in which the needle or index moves to the extent of its deflection and stops with little or no further oscillation.

Deadborn (a.) Stillborn.

Deadened (imp. & p. p.) of Deaden

Deadening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deaden

Deaden (a.) To make as dead; to impair in vigor, force, activity, or sensation; to lessen the force or acuteness of; to blunt; as, to deaden the natural powers or feelings; to deaden a sound.

Deaden (a.) To lessen the velocity or momentum of; to retard; as, to deaden a ship's headway.

Deaden (a.) To make vapid or spiritless; as, to deaden wine.

Deaden (a.) To deprive of gloss or brilliancy; to obscure; as, to deaden gilding by a coat of size.

Deadener (n.) One who, or that which, deadens or checks.

Dead-eye (n.) A round, flattish, wooden block, encircled by a rope, or an iron band, and pierced with three holes to receive the lanyard; -- used to extend the shrouds and stays, and for other purposes. Called also deadman's eye.

Deadhead (n.) One who receives free tickets for theaters, public conveyances, etc.

Deadhead (n.) A buoy. See under Dead, a.

Dead-hearted (a.) Having a dull, faint heart; spiritless; listless.

Deadhouse (n.) A morgue; a place for the temporary reception and exposure of dead bodies.

Deadish (a.) Somewhat dead, dull, or lifeless; deathlike.

Deadlatch (n.) A kind of latch whose bolt may be so locked by a detent that it can not be opened from the inside by the handle, or from the outside by the latch key.

Deadlight (n.) A strong shutter, made to fit open ports and keep out water in a storm.

Deadlihood (n.) State of the dead.

Deadliness (n.) The quality of being deadly.

Deadlock (n.) A lock which is not self-latching, but requires a key to throw the bolt forward.

Deadlock (n.) A counteraction of things, which produces an entire stoppage; a complete obstruction of action.

Deadly (a.) Capable of causing death; mortal; fatal; destructive; certain or likely to cause death; as, a deadly blow or wound.

Deadly (a.) Aiming or willing to destroy; implacable; desperately hostile; flagitious; as, deadly enemies.

Deadly (a.) Subject to death; mortal.

Deadly (adv.) In a manner resembling, or as if produced by, death.

Deadly (adv.) In a manner to occasion death; mortally.

Deadly (adv.) In an implacable manner; destructively.

Deadly (adv.) Extremely.

Deadness (n.) The state of being destitute of life, vigor, spirit, activity, etc.; dullness; inertness; languor; coldness; vapidness; indifference; as, the deadness of a limb, a body, or a tree; the deadness of an eye; deadness of the affections; the deadness of beer or cider; deadness to the world, and the like.

Dead-pay (n.) Pay drawn for soldiers, or others, really dead, whose names are kept on the rolls.

Dead-reckoning (n.) See under Dead, a.

Deads (n. pl.) The substances which inclose the ore on every side.

Dead-stroke (a.) Making a stroke without recoil; deadbeat.

Deadwood (n.) A mass of timbers built into the bow and stern of a vessel to give solidity.

Deadwood (n.) Dead trees or branches; useless material.

Deadworks (n. pl.) The parts of a ship above the water when she is laden.

Deaf (a.) Wanting the sense of hearing, either wholly or in part; unable to perceive sounds; hard of hearing; as, a deaf man.

Deaf (a.) Unwilling to hear or listen; determinedly inattentive; regardless; not to be persuaded as to facts, argument, or exhortation; -- with to; as, deaf to reason.

Deaf (a.) Deprived of the power of hearing; deafened.

Deaf (a.) Obscurely heard; stifled; deadened.

Deaf (a.) Decayed; tasteless; dead; as, a deaf nut; deaf corn.

Deaf (v. t.) To deafen.

Deafened (imp. & p. p.) of Deafen

Deafening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deafen

Deafen (v. t.) To make deaf; to deprive of the power of hearing; to render incapable of perceiving sounds distinctly.

Deafen (v. t.) To render impervious to sound, as a partition or floor, by filling the space within with mortar, by lining with paper, etc.

Deafening (n.) The act or process of rendering impervious to sound, as a floor or wall; also, the material with which the spaces are filled in this process; pugging.

Deafly (adv.) Without sense of sounds; obscurely.

Deafly (a.) Lonely; solitary.

Deaf-mute (n.) A person who is deaf and dumb; one who, through deprivation or defect of hearing, has either failed the acquire the power of speech, or has lost it.

Deaf-mutism (n.) The condition of being a deaf-mute.

Deafness (n.) Incapacity of perceiving sounds; the state of the organs which prevents the impression which constitute hearing; want of the sense of hearing.

Deafness (n.) Unwillingness to hear; voluntary rejection of what is addressed to the understanding.

Deal (n.) A part or portion; a share; hence, an indefinite quantity, degree, or extent, degree, or extent; as, a deal of time and trouble; a deal of cold.

Deal (n.) The process of dealing cards to the players; also, the portion disturbed.

Deal (n.) Distribution; apportionment.

Deal (n.) An arrangement to attain a desired result by a combination of interested parties; -- applied to stock speculations and political bargains.

Deal (n.) The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board or plank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seven inches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower than this, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end.

Deal (n.) Wood of the pine or fir; as, a floor of deal.

Dealt (imp. & p. p.) of Deal

Dealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deal

Deal (n.) To divide; to separate in portions; hence, to give in portions; to distribute; to bestow successively; -- sometimes with out.

Deal (n.) Specifically: To distribute, as cards, to the players at the commencement of a game; as, to deal the cards; to deal one a jack.

Deal (v. i.) To make distribution; to share out in portions, as cards to the players.

Deal (v. i.) To do a distributing or retailing business, as distinguished from that of a manufacturer or producer; to traffic; to trade; to do business; as, he deals in flour.

Deal (v. i.) To act as an intermediary in business or any affairs; to manage; to make arrangements; -- followed by between or with.

Deal (v. i.) To conduct one's self; to behave or act in any affair or towards any one; to treat.

Deal (v. i.) To contend (with); to treat (with), by way of opposition, check, or correction; as, he has turbulent passions to deal with.

Dealbate (v. t.) To whiten.

Dealbation (n.) Act of bleaching; a whitening.

Dealer (n.) One who deals; one who has to do, or has concern, with others; esp., a trader, a trafficker, a shopkeeper, a broker, or a merchant; as, a dealer in dry goods; a dealer in stocks; a retail dealer.

Dealer (n.) One who distributes cards to the players.

Dealfish (n.) A long, thin fish of the arctic seas (Trachypterus arcticus).

Dealing (n.) The act of one who deals; distribution of anything, as of cards to the players; method of business; traffic; intercourse; transaction; as, to have dealings with a person.

Dealth (n.) Share dealt.

Deambulate (v. i.) To walk abroad.

Deambulation (n.) A walking abroad; a promenading.

Deambulatory (a.) Going about from place to place; wandering; of or pertaining to a deambulatory.

Deambulatory (n.) A covered place in which to walk; an ambulatory.

Dean (n.) A dignitary or presiding officer in certain ecclesiastical and lay bodies; esp., an ecclesiastical dignitary, subordinate to a bishop.

Dean (n.) The collegiate officer in the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, England, who, besides other duties, has regard to the moral condition of the college.

Dean (n.) The head or presiding officer in the faculty of some colleges or universities.

Dean (n.) A registrar or secretary of the faculty in a department of a college, as in a medical, or theological, or scientific department.

Dean (n.) The chief or senior of a company on occasion of ceremony; as, the dean of the diplomatic corps; -- so called by courtesy.

Deaneries (pl. ) of Deanery

Deanery (n.) The office or the revenue of a dean. See the Note under Benefice, n., 3.

Deanery (n.) The residence of a dean.

Deanery (n.) The territorial jurisdiction of a dean.

Deanship (n.) The office of a dean.

Dear (superl.) Bearing a high price; high-priced; costly; expensive.

Dear (superl.) Marked by scarcity or dearth, and exorbitance of price; as, a dear year.

Dear (superl.) Highly valued; greatly beloved; cherished; precious.

Dear (superl.) Hence, close to the heart; heartfelt; present in mind; engaging the attention.

Dear (superl.) Of agreeable things and interests.

Dear (superl.) Of disagreeable things and antipathies.

Dear (n.) A dear one; lover; sweetheart.

Dear (adv.) Dearly; at a high price.

Dear (v. t.) To endear.

Dearborn (n.) A four-wheeled carriage, with curtained sides.

Dear-bought (a.) Bought at a high price; as, dear-bought experience.

Deare () variant of Dere, v. t. & n.

Dearie (n.) Same as Deary.

Dearling (n.) A darling.

Dear-loved (a.) Greatly beloved.

Dearly (adv.) In a dear manner; with affection; heartily; earnestly; as, to love one dearly.

Dearly (adv.) At a high rate or price; grievously.

Dearly (adv.) Exquisitely.

Dearn (a.) Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful.

Dearn (v. t.) Same as Darn.

Dearness (n.) The quality or state of being dear; costliness; excess of price.

Dearness (n.) Fondness; preciousness; love; tenderness.

Dearth (n.) Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack of food on account of failure of crops; famine.

Dearticulate (v. t.) To disjoint.

Dearworth (a.) Precious.

Deary (n.) A dear; a darling.

Deas (n.) See Dais.

Death (v. i.) The cessation of all vital phenomena without capability of resuscitation, either in animals or plants.

Death (v. i.) Total privation or loss; extinction; cessation; as, the death of memory.

Death (v. i.) Manner of dying; act or state of passing from life.

Death (v. i.) Cause of loss of life.

Death (v. i.) Personified: The destroyer of life, -- conventionally represented as a skeleton with a scythe.

Death (v. i.) Danger of death.

Death (v. i.) Murder; murderous character.

Death (v. i.) Loss of spiritual life.

Death (v. i.) Anything so dreadful as to be like death.

Deathbed (n.) The bed in which a person dies; hence, the closing hours of life of one who dies by sickness or the like; the last sickness.

Deathbird (n.) Tengmalm's or Richardson's owl (Nyctale Tengmalmi); -- so called from a superstition of the North American Indians that its note presages death.

Deathblow (n.) A mortal or crushing blow; a stroke or event which kills or destroys.

Deathful (a.) Full of death or slaughter; murderous; destructive; bloody.

Deathful (a.) Liable to undergo death; mortal.

Deathfulness (n.) Appearance of death.

Deathless (a.) Not subject to death, destruction, or extinction; immortal; undying; imperishable; as, deathless beings; deathless fame.

Deathlike (a.) Resembling death.

Deathlike (a.) Deadly.

Deathliness (n.) The quality of being deathly; deadliness.

Deathly (a.) Deadly; fatal; mortal; destructive.

Deathly (adv.) Deadly; as, deathly pale or sick.

Death's-head (n.) A naked human skull as the emblem of death; the head of the conventional personification of death.

Death's-herb (n.) The deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna).

Deathsman (n.) An executioner; a headsman or hangman.

Deathward (adv.) Toward death.

Deathwatch (n.) A small beetle (Anobium tessellatum and other allied species). By forcibly striking its head against woodwork it makes a ticking sound, which is a call of the sexes to each other, but has been imagined by superstitious people to presage death.

Deathwatch (n.) A small wingless insect, of the family Psocidae, which makes a similar but fainter sound; -- called also deathtick.

Deathwatch (n.) The guard set over a criminal before his execution.

Deaurate (a.) Gilded.

Deaurate (v. t.) To gild.

Deauration (n.) Act of gilding.

Deave (v. t.) To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen.

Debacchate (v. i.) To rave as a bacchanal.

Debacchation (n.) Wild raving or debauchery.

Debacle (n.) A breaking or bursting forth; a violent rush or flood of waters which breaks down opposing barriers, and hurls forward and disperses blocks of stone and other debris.

Debarred (imp. & p. p.) of Debar

Debarring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debar

Debar (v. t.) To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; to preclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut out or exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of.

Debarb (v. t.) To deprive of the beard.

Debarked (imp. & p. p.) of Debark

Debarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debark

Debark (v. t. & i.) To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore.

Debarkation (n.) Disembarkation.

Debarment (n.) Hindrance from approach; exclusion.

Debarrass (v. t.) To disembarrass; to relieve.

Debased (imp. & p. p.) of Debase

Debasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debase

Debase (a.) To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth, dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate; to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind by frivolity; to debase style by vulgar words.

Debased (a.) Turned upside down from its proper position; inverted; reversed.

Debasement (n.) The act of debasing or the state of being debased.

Debaser (n.) One who, or that which, debases.

Debasingly (adv.) In a manner to debase.

Debatable (a.) Liable to be debated; disputable; subject to controversy or contention; open to question or dispute; as, a debatable question.

Debated (imp. & p. p.) of Debate

Debating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debate

Debate (v. t.) To engage in combat for; to strive for.

Debate (v. t.) To contend for in words or arguments; to strive to maintain by reasoning; to dispute; to contest; to discuss; to argue for and against.

Debate (v. i.) To engage in strife or combat; to fight.

Debate (v. i.) To contend in words; to dispute; hence, to deliberate; to consider; to discuss or examine different arguments in the mind; -- often followed by on or upon.

Debate (v. t.) A fight or fighting; contest; strife.

Debate (v. t.) Contention in words or arguments; discussion for the purpose of elucidating truth or influencing action; strife in argument; controversy; as, the debates in Parliament or in Congress.

Debate (v. t.) Subject of discussion.

Debateful (a.) Full of contention; contentious; quarrelsome.

Debatefully (adv.) With contention.

Debatement (n.) Controversy; deliberation; debate.

Debater (n.) One who debates; one given to argument; a disputant; a controvertist.

Debating (n.) The act of discussing or arguing; discussion.

Debatingly (adv.) In the manner of a debate.

Debauched (imp. & p. p.) of Debauch

Debauching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debauch

Debauch (n.) To lead away from purity or excellence; to corrupt in character or principles; to mar; to vitiate; to pollute; to seduce; as, to debauch one's self by intemperance; to debauch a woman; to debauch an army.

Debauch (n.) Excess in eating or drinking; intemperance; drunkenness; lewdness; debauchery.

Debauch (n.) An act or occasion of debauchery.

Debauched (a.) Dissolute; dissipated.

Debauchedly (adv.) In a profligate manner.

Debauchedness (n.) The state of being debauched; intemperance.

Debauchee (v. t.) One who is given to intemperance or bacchanalian excesses; a man habitually lewd; a libertine.

Debaucher (n.) One who debauches or corrupts others; especially, a seducer to lewdness.

Debaucheries (pl. ) of Debauchery

Debauchery (n.) Corruption of fidelity; seduction from virtue, duty, or allegiance.

Debauchery (n.) Excessive indulgence of the appetites; especially, excessive indulgence of lust; intemperance; sensuality; habitual lewdness.

Debauchment (n.) The act of corrupting; the act of seducing from virtue or duty.

Debauchness (n.) Debauchedness.

Debeige (n.) A kind of woolen or mixed dress goods.

Debel (v. t.) To conquer.

Debellate (v. t.) To subdue; to conquer in war.

Debellation (n.) The act of conquering or subduing.

De bene esse () Of well being; of formal sufficiency for the time; conditionally; provisionally.

Debenture (n.) A writing acknowledging a debt; a writing or certificate signed by a public officer, as evidence of a debt due to some person; the sum thus due.

Debenture (n.) A customhouse certificate entitling an exporter of imported goods to a drawback of duties paid on their importation.

Debentured (a.) Entitled to drawback or debenture; as, debentured goods.

Debile (a.) Weak.

Debilitant (a.) Diminishing the energy of organs; reducing excitement; as, a debilitant drug.

Debilitated (imp. & p. p.) of Debilitate

Debilitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debilitate

Debilitate (v. t.) To impair the strength of; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to debilitate the body by intemperance.

Debilitation (n.) The act or process of debilitating, or the condition of one who is debilitated; weakness.

Debility (a.) The state of being weak; weakness; feebleness; languor.

Debit (n.) A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; -- mostly used adjectively; as, the debit side of an account.

Debited (imp. & p. p.) of Debit

Debiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debit

Debit (v. t.) To charge with debt; -- the opposite of, and correlative to, credit; as, to debit a purchaser for the goods sold.

Debit (v. t.) To enter on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; as, to debit the amount of goods sold.

Debitor (n.) A debtor.

Debituminization (n.) The act of depriving of bitumen.

Debituminize (v. t.) To deprive of bitumen.

Deblai (n.) The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai), is taken.

Debonair (a.) Characterized by courteousness, affability, or gentleness; of good appearance and manners; graceful; complaisant.

Debonairity (n.) Debonairness.

Debonairly (adv.) Courteously; elegantly.

Debonairness (n.) The quality of being debonair; good humor; gentleness; courtesy.

Debosh (v. t.) To debauch.

Deboshment (n.) Debauchment.

Debouched (imp. & p. p.) of Debouch

Debouching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debouch

Debouch (v. i.) To march out from a wood, defile, or other confined spot, into open ground; to issue.

Debouche (n.) A place for exit; an outlet; hence, a market for goods.

Debouchure (n.) The outward opening of a river, of a valley, or of a strait.

Debris (n.) Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially, fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base.

Debris (n.) Rubbish, especially such as results from the destruction of anything; remains; ruins.

Debruised (a.) Surmounted by an ordinary; as, a lion is debruised when a bend or other ordinary is placed over it, as in the cut.

Debt (n.) That which is due from one person to another, whether money, goods, or services; that which one person is bound to pay to another, or to perform for his benefit; thing owed; obligation; liability.

Debt (n.) A duty neglected or violated; a fault; a sin; a trespass.

Debt (n.) An action at law to recover a certain specified sum of money alleged to be due.

Debted (p. a.) Indebted; obliged to.

Debtee (n.) One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor.

Debtless (a.) Free from debt.

Debtor (n.) One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to creditor.

Debulliate (v. i.) To boil over.

Debulition (n.) A bubbling or boiling over.

Deburse (v. t. & i.) To disburse.

Debuscope (n.) A modification of the kaleidoscope; -- used to reflect images so as to form beautiful designs.

Debut (n.) A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance before the public, as of an actor or public speaker.

Debutant () Alt. of Debutante

Debutante () A person who makes his (or her) first appearance before the public.

Deca- () A prefix, from Gr. de`ka, signifying ten; specifically (Metric System), a prefix signifying the weight or measure that is ten times the principal unit.

Decacerata (n. pl.) The division of Cephalopoda which includes the squids, cuttlefishes, and others having ten arms or tentacles; -- called also Decapoda. [Written also Decacera.] See Dibranchiata.

Decachord (n.) Alt. of Decachordon

Decachordon (n.) An ancient Greek musical instrument of ten strings, resembling the harp.

Decachordon (n.) Something consisting of ten parts.

Decucuminated (a.) Having the point or top cut off.

Decad (n.) A decade.

Decadal (a.) Pertaining to ten; consisting of tens.

Decade (n.) A group or division of ten; esp., a period of ten years; a decennium; as, a decade of years or days; a decade of soldiers; the second decade of Livy.

Decadence (n.) Alt. of Decadency

Decadency (n.) A falling away; decay; deterioration; declension. The old castle, where the family lived in their decadence.

Decadent (a.) Decaying; deteriorating.

Decadist (n.) A writer of a book divided into decades; as, Livy was a decadist.

Decagon (n.) A plane figure having ten sides and ten angles; any figure having ten angles. A regular decagon is one that has all its sides and angles equal.

Decagonal (a.) Pertaining to a decagon; having ten sides.

Decagram (n.) Alt. of Decagramme

Decagramme (n.) A weight of the metric system; ten grams, equal to about 154.32 grains avoirdupois.

Decagynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants characterized by having ten styles.

Decagynian (a.) Alt. of Deccagynous

Deccagynous (a.) Belonging to the Decagynia; having ten styles.

Decahedral (a.) Having ten sides.

Decahedrons (pl. ) of Decahedron

Decahedra (pl. ) of Decahedron

Decahedron (n.) A solid figure or body inclosed by ten plane surfaces.

Decalcification (n.) The removal of calcareous matter.

Decalcified (imp. & p. p.) of Decalcify

Decalcifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decalcify

Decalcify (v. t.) To deprive of calcareous matter; thus, to decalcify bones is to remove the stony part, and leave only the gelatin.

Decalcomania (n.) Alt. of Decalcomanie

Decalcomanie (n.) The art or process of transferring pictures and designs to china, glass, marble, etc., and permanently fixing them thereto.

Decaliter (n.) Alt. of Decalitre

Decalitre (n.) A measure of capacity in the metric system; a cubic volume of ten liters, equal to about 610.24 cubic inches, that is, 2.642 wine gallons.

Decalog (n.) Decalogue.

Decalogist (n.) One who explains the decalogue.

Decalogue (n.) The Ten Commandments or precepts given by God to Moses on Mount Sinai, and originally written on two tables of stone.

Decameron (n.) A celebrated collection of tales, supposed to be related in ten days; -- written in the 14th century, by Boccaccio, an Italian.

Decameter (n.) Alt. of Decametre

Decametre (n.) A measure of length in the metric system; ten meters, equal to about 393.7 inches.

Decamped (imp. & p. p.) of Decamp

Decamping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decamp

Decamp (v. i.) To break up a camp; to move away from a camping ground, usually by night or secretly.

Decamp (v. i.) Hence, to depart suddenly; to run away; -- generally used disparagingly.

Decampment (n.) Departure from a camp; a marching off.

Decanal (a.) Pertaining to a dean or deanery.

Decandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants characterized by having ten stamens.

Decandrian (a.) Alt. of Decandrous

Decandrous (a.) Belonging to the Decandria; having ten stamens.

Decane (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H22, of the paraffin series, including several isomeric modifications.

Decangular (a.) Having ten angles.

Decani (a.) Used of the side of the choir on which the dean's stall is placed; decanal; -- correlative to cantoris; as, the decanal, or decani, side.

Decanted (imp. & p. p.) of Decant

Decanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decant

Decant (v. t.) To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb the sediment; or to pour from one vessel into another; as, to decant wine.

Decantate (v. t.) To decant.

Decantation (n.) The act of pouring off a clear liquor gently from its lees or sediment, or from one vessel into another.

Decanter (n.) A vessel used to decant liquors, or for receiving decanted liquors; a kind of glass bottle used for holding wine or other liquors, from which drinking glasses are filled.

Decanter (n.) One who decants liquors.

Decaphyllous (a.) Having ten leaves.

Decapitated (imp. & p. p.) of Decapitate

Decapitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decapitate

Decapitate (v. t.) To cut off the head of; to behead.

Decapitate (v. t.) To remove summarily from office.

Decapitation (n.) The act of beheading; beheading.

Decapod (n.) A crustacean with ten feet or legs, as a crab; one of the Decapoda. Also used adjectively.

Decapoda (n. pl.) The order of Crustacea which includes the shrimps, lobsters, crabs, etc.

Decapoda (n. pl.) A division of the dibranchiate cephalopods including the cuttlefishes and squids. See Decacera.

Deccapodal (a.) Alt. of Deccapodous

Deccapodous (a.) Belonging to the decapods; having ten feet; ten-footed.

Decarbonate (v. t.) To deprive of carbonic acid.

Decarbonization (n.) The action or process of depriving a substance of carbon.

Decarbonized (imp. & p. p.) of Decarbonize

Decarbonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decarbonize

Decarbonize (v. t.) To deprive of carbon; as, to decarbonize steel; to decarbonize the blood.

Decarbonizer (n.) He who, or that which, decarbonizes a substance.

Decarburization (n.) The act, process, or result of decarburizing.

Decarburize (v. t.) To deprive of carbon; to remove the carbon from.

Decard (v. t.) To discard.

Decardinalize (v. t.) To depose from the rank of cardinal.

Decastere (n.) A measure of capacity, equal to ten steres, or ten cubic meters.

Decastich (n.) A poem consisting of ten lines.

Decastyle (a.) Having ten columns in front; -- said of a portico, temple, etc.

Decastyle (n.) A portico having ten pillars or columns in front.

Decasyllabic (a.) Having, or consisting of, ten syllables.

Decatoic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, decane.

Decayed (imp. & p. p.) of Decay

Decaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decay

Decay (v. i.) To pass gradually from a sound, prosperous, or perfect state, to one of imperfection, adversity, or dissolution; to waste away; to decline; to fail; to become weak, corrupt, or disintegrated; to rot; to perish; as, a tree decays; fortunes decay; hopes decay.

Decay (v. t.) To cause to decay; to impair.

Decay (v. t.) To destroy.

Decay (n.) Gradual failure of health, strength, soundness, prosperity, or of any species of excellence or perfection; tendency toward dissolution or extinction; corruption; rottenness; decline; deterioration; as, the decay of the body; the decay of virtue; the decay of the Roman empire; a castle in decay.

Decay (n.) Destruction; death.

Decay (n.) Cause of decay.

Decayed (a.) Fallen, as to physical or social condition; affected with decay; rotten; as, decayed vegetation or vegetables; a decayed fortune or gentleman.

Decayer (n.) A causer of decay.

Decease (n.) Departure, especially departure from this life; death.

Deceased (imp. & p. p.) of Decease

Deceasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decease

Decease (v. i.) To depart from this life; to die; to pass away.

Deceased (a.) Passed away; dead; gone.

Decede (n.) To withdraw.

Decedent (a.) Removing; departing.

Decedent (n.) A deceased person.

Deceit (n.) An attempt or disposition to deceive or lead into error; any declaration, artifice, or practice, which misleads another, or causes him to believe what is false; a contrivance to entrap; deception; a wily device; fraud.

Deceit (n.) Any trick, collusion, contrivance, false representation, or underhand practice, used to defraud another. When injury is thereby effected, an action of deceit, as it called, lies for compensation.

Deceitful (a.) Full of, or characterized by, deceit; serving to mislead or insnare; trickish; fraudulent; cheating; insincere.

Deceitfully (adv.) With intent to deceive.

Deceitfulness (n.) The disposition to deceive; as, a man's deceitfulness may be habitual.

Deceitfulness (n.) The quality of being deceitful; as, the deceitfulness of a man's practices.

Deceitfulness (n.) Tendency to mislead or deceive.

Deceitless (a.) Free from deceit.

Deceivable (a.) Fitted to deceive; deceitful.

Deceivable (a.) Subject to deceit; capable of being misled.

Deceivableness (n.) Capability of deceiving.

Deceivableness (n.) Liability to be deceived or misled; as, the deceivableness of a child.

Deceivably (adv.) In a deceivable manner.

Deceived (imp. & p. p.) of Deceive

Deceiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deceive

Deceive (v. t.) To lead into error; to cause to believe what is false, or disbelieve what is true; to impose upon; to mislead; to cheat; to disappoint; to delude; to insnare.

Deceive (v. t.) To beguile; to amuse, so as to divert the attention; to while away; to take away as if by deception.

Deceive (v. t.) To deprive by fraud or stealth; to defraud.

Deceiver (n.) One who deceives; one who leads into error; a cheat; an impostor.

December (n.) The twelfth and last month of the year, containing thirty-one days. During this month occurs the winter solstice.

December (n.) Fig.: With reference to the end of the year and to the winter season; as, the December of his life.

Decemdentate (a.) Having ten points or teeth.

Decemfid (a.) Cleft into ten parts.

Decemlocular (a.) Having ten cells for seeds.

Decempedal (a.) Ten feet in length.

Decempedal (a.) Having ten feet; decapodal.

Decemvirs (pl. ) of Decemvir

Decemviri (pl. ) of Decemvir

Decemvir (n.) One of a body of ten magistrates in ancient Rome.

Decemvir (n.) A member of any body of ten men in authority.

Decemviral (a.) Pertaining to the decemvirs in Rome.

Decemvirate (n.) The office or term of office of the decemvirs in Rome.

Decemvirate (n.) A body of ten men in authority.

Decemvirship (n.) The office of a decemvir.

Decence (n.) Decency.

Decencies (pl. ) of Decency

Decency (n.) The quality or state of being decent, suitable, or becoming, in words or behavior; propriety of form in social intercourse, in actions, or in discourse; proper formality; becoming ceremony; seemliness; hence, freedom from obscenity or indecorum; modesty.

Decency (n.) That which is proper or becoming.

Decene (n.) One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H20, of the ethylene series.

Decennaries (pl. ) of Decennary

Decennary (n.) A period of ten years.

Decennary (n.) A tithing consisting of ten neighboring families.

Decennial (a.) Consisting of ten years; happening every ten years; as, a decennial period; decennial games.

Decennial (n.) A tenth year or tenth anniversary.

Decenniums (pl. ) of Decennium

Decennia (pl. ) of Decennium

Decennium (n.) A period of ten years.

Decennoval (a.) Alt. of Decennovary

Decennovary (a.) Pertaining to the number nineteen; of nineteen years.

Decent (a.) Suitable in words, behavior, dress, or ceremony; becoming; fit; decorous; proper; seemly; as, decent conduct; decent language.

Decent (a.) Free from immodesty or obscenity; modest.

Decent (a.) Comely; shapely; well-formed.

Decent (a.) Moderate, but competent; sufficient; hence, respectable; fairly good; reasonably comfortable or satisfying; as, a decent fortune; a decent person.

Decentralization (n.) The action of decentralizing, or the state of being decentralized.

Decentralize (v. t.) To prevent from centralizing; to cause to withdraw from the center or place of concentration; to divide and distribute (what has been united or concentrated); -- esp. said of authority, or the administration of public affairs.

Deceptible (a.) Capable of being deceived; deceivable.

Deception (n.) The act of deceiving or misleading.

Deception (n.) The state of being deceived or misled.

Deception (n.) That which deceives or is intended to deceive; false representation; artifice; cheat; fraud.

Deceptious (a.) Tending deceive; delusive.

Deceptive (a.) Tending to deceive; having power to mislead, or impress with false opinions; as, a deceptive countenance or appearance.

Deceptively (adv.) In a manner to deceive.

Deceptiveness (n.) The power or habit of deceiving; tendency or aptness to deceive.

Deceptivity (n.) Deceptiveness; a deception; a sham.

Deceptory (a.) Deceptive.

Decern (v. t.) To perceive, discern, or decide.

Decern (v. t.) To decree; to adjudge.

Decerniture (n.) A decree or sentence of a court.

Decerp (v. t.) To pluck off; to crop; to gather.

Decerpt (a.) Plucked off or away.

Decerptible (a.) That may be plucked off, cropped, or torn away.

Decerption (n.) The act of plucking off; a cropping.

Decerption (n.) That which is plucked off or rent away; a fragment; a piece.

Decertation (n.) Contest for mastery; contention; strife.

Decession (n.) Departure; decrease; -- opposed to accesion.

Decharm (v. t.) To free from a charm; to disenchant.

Dechristianized (imp. & p. p.) of Dechristianize

Dechristianizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dechristianize

Dechristianize (v. t.) To turn from, or divest of, Christianity.

Decidable (a.) Capable of being decided; determinable.

Decided (imp. & p. p.) of Decide

Deciding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decide

Decide (v. t.) To cut off; to separate.

Decide (v. t.) To bring to a termination, as a question, controversy, struggle, by giving the victory to one side or party; to render judgment concerning; to determine; to settle.

Decide (v. i.) To determine; to form a definite opinion; to come to a conclusion; to give decision; as, the court decided in favor of the defendant.

Decided (a.) Free from ambiguity; unequivocal; unmistakable; unquestionable; clear; evident; as, a decided advantage.

Decided (a.) Free from doubt or wavering; determined; of fixed purpose; fully settled; positive; resolute; as, a decided opinion or purpose.

Decidedly (adv.) In a decided manner; indisputably; clearly; thoroughly.

Decidement (n.) Means of forming a decision.

Decidence (n.) A falling off.

Decider (n.) One who decides.

Decidua (n.) The inner layer of the wall of the uterus, which envelops the embryo, forms a part of the placenta, and is discharged with it.

Deciduata (n. pl.) A group of Mammalia in which a decidua is thrown off with, or after, the fetus, as in the human species.

Deciduate (a.) Possessed of, or characterized by, a decidua.

Deciduity (n.) Deciduousness.

Deciduous (a.) Falling off, or subject to fall or be shed, at a certain season, or a certain stage or interval of growth, as leaves (except of evergreens) in autumn, or as parts of animals, such as hair, teeth, antlers, etc.; also, shedding leaves or parts at certain seasons, stages, or intervals; as, deciduous trees; the deciduous membrane.

Deciduousness (n.) The quality or state of being deciduous.

Decigram (n.) Alt. of Decigramme

Decigramme (n.) A weight in the metric system; one tenth of a gram, equal to 1.5432 grains avoirdupois.

Decil (n.) Alt. of Decile

Decile (n.) An aspect or position of two planets, when they are distant from each other a tenth part of the zodiac, or 36.

Deciliter (n.) Alt. of Decilitre

Decilitre (n.) A measure of capacity or volume in the metric system; one tenth of a liter, equal to 6.1022 cubic inches, or 3.38 fluid ounces.

Decillion (n.) According to the English notation, a million involved to the tenth power, or a unit with sixty ciphers annexed; according to the French and American notation, a thousand involved to the eleventh power, or a unit with thirty-three ciphers annexed. [See the Note under Numeration.]

Decillionth (a.) Pertaining to a decillion, or to the quotient of unity divided by a decillion.

Decillionth (n.) The quotient of unity divided by a decillion.

Decillionth (n.) One of a decillion equal parts.

Decimal (a.) Of or pertaining to decimals; numbered or proceeding by tens; having a tenfold increase or decrease, each unit being ten times the unit next smaller; as, decimal notation; a decimal coinage.

Decimal (n.) A number expressed in the scale of tens; specifically, and almost exclusively, used as synonymous with a decimal fraction.

Decimalism (n.) The system of a decimal currency, decimal weights, measures, etc.

Decimalize (v. t.) To reduce to a decimal system; as, to decimalize the currency.

Decimally (adv.) By tens; by means of decimals.

Decimated (imp. & p. p.) of Decimate

Decimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decimate

Decimate (v. t.) To take the tenth part of; to tithe.

Decimate (v. t.) To select by lot and punish with death every tenth man of; as, to decimate a regiment as a punishment for mutiny.

Decimate (v. t.) To destroy a considerable part of; as, to decimate an army in battle; to decimate a people by disease.

Decimation (n.) A tithing.

Decimation (n.) A selection of every tenth person by lot, as for punishment.

Decimation (n.) The destruction of any large proportion, as of people by pestilence or war.

Decimator (n.) One who decimates.

Decime (n.) A French coin, the tenth part of a franc, equal to about two cents.

Decimeter (n.) Alt. of Decimetre

Decimetre (n.) A measure of length in the metric system; one tenth of a meter, equal to 3.937 inches.

Decimosexto (n.) A book consisting of sheets, each of which is folded into sixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of book; -- usually written 16mo or 16.

Decimosexto (a.) Having sixteen leaves to a sheet; as, a decimosexto form, book, leaf, size.

Decine (n.) One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H15, of the acetylene series; -- called also decenylene.

Deciphered (imp. & p. p.) of Decipher

Deciphering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decipher

Decipher (v. t.) To translate from secret characters or ciphers into intelligible terms; as, to decipher a letter written in secret characters.

Decipher (v. t.) To find out, so as to be able to make known the meaning of; to make out or read, as words badly written or partly obliterated; to detect; to reveal; to unfold.

Decipher (v. t.) To stamp; to detect; to discover.

Decipherable (a.) Capable of being deciphered; as, old writings not decipherable.

Decipherer (n.) One who deciphers.

Decipheress (n.) A woman who deciphers.

Decipherment (n.) The act of deciphering.

Decipiency (n.) State of being deceived; hallucination.

Decipium (n.) A supposed rare element, said to be associated with cerium, yttrium, etc., in the mineral samarskite, and more recently called samarium. Symbol Dp. See Samarium.

Decision (n.) Cutting off; division; detachment of a part.

Decision (n.) The act of deciding; act of settling or terminating, as a controversy, by giving judgment on the matter at issue; determination, as of a question or doubt; settlement; conclusion.

Decision (n.) An account or report of a conclusion, especially of a legal adjudication or judicial determination of a question or cause; as, a decision of arbitrators; a decision of the Supreme Court.

Decision (n.) The quality of being decided; prompt and fixed determination; unwavering firmness; as, to manifest great decision.

Decisive (a.) Having the power or quality of deciding a question or controversy; putting an end to contest or controversy; final; conclusive.

Decisive (a.) Marked by promptness and decision.

Decisory (a.) Able to decide or determine; having a tendency to decide.

Decistere (n.) The tenth part of the stere or cubic meter, equal to 3.531 cubic feet. See Stere.

Decitizenize (v. t.) To deprive of the rights of citizenship.

Decivilize (v. t.) To reduce from civilization to a savage state.

Decked (imp. & p. p.) of Deck

Decking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deck

Deck (v. t.) To cover; to overspread.

Deck (v. t.) To dress, as the person; to clothe; especially, to clothe with more than ordinary elegance; to array; to adorn; to embellish.

Deck (v. t.) To furnish with a deck, as a vessel.

Deck (v.) The floorlike covering of the horizontal sections, or compartments, of a ship. Small vessels have only one deck; larger ships have two or three decks.

Deck (v.) The upper part or top of a mansard roof or curb roof when made nearly flat.

Deck (v.) The roof of a passenger car.

Deck (v.) A pack or set of playing cards.

Deck (v.) A heap or store.

Deckel (n.) Same as Deckle.

Decker (n.) One who, or that which, decks or adorns; a coverer; as, a table decker.

Decker (n.) A vessel which has a deck or decks; -- used esp. in composition; as, a single-decker; a three-decker.

Deckle (n.) A separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a hand mold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, and forms the edge of, the mold in a paper machine and determines the width of the paper.

Declaimed (imp. & p. p.) of Declaim

Declaiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Declaim

Declaim (v. i.) To speak rhetorically; to make a formal speech or oration; to harangue; specifically, to recite a speech, poem, etc., in public as a rhetorical exercise; to practice public speaking; as, the students declaim twice a week.

Declaim (v. i.) To speak for rhetorical display; to speak pompously, noisily, or theatrically; to make an empty speech; to rehearse trite arguments in debate; to rant.

Declaim (v. t.) To utter in public; to deliver in a rhetorical or set manner.

Declaim (v. t.) To defend by declamation; to advocate loudly.

Declaimant (n.) A declaimer.

Declaimer (n.) One who declaims; an haranguer.

Declamation (n.) The act or art of declaiming; rhetorical delivery; haranguing; loud speaking in public; especially, the public recitation of speeches as an exercise in schools and colleges; as, the practice declamation by students.

Declamation (n.) A set or harangue; declamatory discourse.

Declamation (n.) Pretentious rhetorical display, with more sound than sense; as, mere declamation.

Declamator (n.) A declaimer.

Declamatory (a.) Pertaining to declamation; treated in the manner of a rhetorician; as, a declamatory theme.

Declamatory (a.) Characterized by rhetorical display; pretentiously rhetorical; without solid sense or argument; bombastic; noisy; as, a declamatory way or style.

Declarable (a.) Capable of being declared.

Declarant (n.) One who declares.

Declaration (n.) The act of declaring, or publicly announcing; explicit asserting; undisguised token of a ground or side taken on any subject; proclamation; exposition; as, the declaration of an opinion; a declaration of war, etc.

Declaration (n.) That which is declared or proclaimed; announcement; distinct statement; formal expression; avowal.

Declaration (n.) The document or instrument containing such statement or proclamation; as, the Declaration of Independence (now preserved in Washington).

Declaration (n.) That part of the process in which the plaintiff sets forth in order and at large his cause of complaint; the narration of the plaintiff's case containing the count, or counts. See Count, n., 3.

Declarative (a.) Making declaration, proclamation, or publication; explanatory; assertive; declaratory.

Declaratively (adv.) By distinct assertion; not impliedly; in the form of a declaration.

Declarator (n.) A form of action by which some right or interest is sought to be judicially declared.

Declaratorily (adv.) In a declaratory manner.

Declaratory (a.) Making declaration, explanation, or exhibition; making clear or manifest; affirmative; expressive; as, a clause declaratory of the will of the legislature.

Declared (imp. & p. p.) of Declare

Declaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Declare

Declare (v. t.) To make clear; to free from obscurity.

Declare (v. t.) To make known by language; to communicate or manifest explicitly and plainly in any way; to exhibit; to publish; to proclaim; to announce.

Declare (v. t.) To make declaration of; to assert; to affirm; to set forth; to avow; as, he declares the story to be false.

Declare (v. t.) To make full statement of, as goods, etc., for the purpose of paying taxes, duties, etc.

Declare (v. i.) To make a declaration, or an open and explicit avowal; to proclaim one's self; -- often with for or against; as, victory declares against the allies.

Declare (v. i.) To state the plaintiff's cause of action at law in a legal form; as, the plaintiff declares in trespass.

Declaredly (adv.) Avowedly; explicitly.

Declaredness (n.) The state of being declared.

Declarement (n.) Declaration.

Declarer (n.) One who makes known or proclaims; that which exhibits.

Declension (n.) The act or the state of declining; declination; descent; slope.

Declension (n.) A falling off towards a worse state; a downward tendency; deterioration; decay; as, the declension of virtue, of science, of a state, etc.

Declension (n.) Act of courteously refusing; act of declining; a declinature; refusal; as, the declension of a nomination.

Declension (n.) Inflection of nouns, adjectives, etc., according to the grammatical cases.

Declension (n.) The form of the inflection of a word declined by cases; as, the first or the second declension of nouns, adjectives, etc.

Declension (n.) Rehearsing a word as declined.

Declensional (a.) Belonging to declension.

Declinable (a.) Capable of being declined; admitting of declension or inflection; as, declinable parts of speech.

Declinal (a.) Declining; sloping.

Declinate (a.) Bent downward or aside; (Bot.) bending downward in a curve; declined.

Declination (n.) The act or state of bending downward; inclination; as, declination of the head.

Declination (n.) The act or state of falling off or declining from excellence or perfection; deterioration; decay; decline.

Declination (n.) The act of deviating or turning aside; oblique motion; obliquity; withdrawal.

Declination (n.) The act or state of declining or refusing; withdrawal; refusal; averseness.

Declination (n.) The angular distance of any object from the celestial equator, either northward or southward.

Declination (n.) The arc of the horizon, contained between the vertical plane and the prime vertical circle, if reckoned from the east or west, or between the meridian and the plane, reckoned from the north or south.

Declination (n.) The act of inflecting a word; declension. See Decline, v. t., 4.

Declinator (n.) An instrument for taking the declination or angle which a plane makes with the horizontal plane.

Declinator (n.) A dissentient.

Declinatory (a.) Containing or involving a declination or refusal, as of submission to a charge or sentence.

Declinature (n.) The act of declining or refusing; as, the declinature of an office.

Declined (imp. & p. p.) of Decline

Declining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decline

Decline (v. i.) To bend, or lean downward; to take a downward direction; to bend over or hang down, as from weakness, weariness, despondency, etc.; to condescend.

Decline (v. i.) To tend or draw towards a close, decay, or extinction; to tend to a less perfect state; to become diminished or impaired; to fail; to sink; to diminish; to lessen; as, the day declines; virtue declines; religion declines; business declines.

Decline (v. i.) To turn or bend aside; to deviate; to stray; to withdraw; as, a line that declines from straightness; conduct that declines from sound morals.

Decline (v. i.) To turn away; to shun; to refuse; -- the opposite of accept or consent; as, he declined, upon principle.

Decline (v. t.) To bend downward; to bring down; to depress; to cause to bend, or fall.

Decline (v. t.) To cause to decrease or diminish.

Decline (v. t.) To put or turn aside; to turn off or away from; to refuse to undertake or comply with; reject; to shun; to avoid; as, to decline an offer; to decline a contest; he declined any participation with them.

Decline (v. t.) To inflect, or rehearse in order the changes of grammatical form of; as, to decline a noun or an adjective.

Decline (v. t.) To run through from first to last; to repeat like a schoolboy declining a noun.

Decline (v. i.) A falling off; a tendency to a worse state; diminution or decay; deterioration; also, the period when a thing is tending toward extinction or a less perfect state; as, the decline of life; the decline of strength; the decline of virtue and religion.

Decline (v. i.) That period of a disorder or paroxysm when the symptoms begin to abate in violence; as, the decline of a fever.

Decline (v. i.) A gradual sinking and wasting away of the physical faculties; any wasting disease, esp. pulmonary consumption; as, to die of a decline.

Declined (a.) Declinate.

Decliner (n.) He who declines or rejects.

Declinometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the declination of the magnetic needle.

Declinous (a.) Declinate.

Declivitous (a.) Alt. of Declivous

Declivous (a.) Descending gradually; moderately steep; sloping; downhill.

Declivities (pl. ) of Declivity

Declivity (n.) Deviation from a horizontal line; gradual descent of surface; inclination downward; slope; -- opposed to acclivity, or ascent; the same slope, considered as descending, being a declivity, which, considered as ascending, is an acclivity.

Declivity (n.) A descending surface; a sloping place.

Decocted (imp. & p. p.) of Decoct

Decocting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decoct

Decoct (v. t.) To prepare by boiling; to digest in hot or boiling water; to extract the strength or flavor of by boiling; to make an infusion of.

Decoct (v. t.) To prepare by the heat of the stomach for assimilation; to digest; to concoct.

Decoct (v. t.) To warm, strengthen, or invigorate, as if by boiling.

Decoctible (a.) Capable of being boiled or digested.

Decoction (n.) The act or process of boiling anything in a watery fluid to extract its virtues.

Decoction (n.) An extract got from a body by boiling it in water.

Decocture (n.) A decoction.

Decollated (imp. & p. p.) of Decollate

Decollating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decollate

Decollate (v. t.) To sever from the neck; to behead; to decapitate.

Decollated (a.) Decapitated; worn or cast off in the process of growth, as the apex of certain univalve shells.

Decollation (n.) The act of beheading or state of one beheaded; -- especially used of the execution of St. John the Baptist.

Decollation (n.) A painting representing the beheading of a saint or martyr, esp. of St. John the Baptist.

Decollete (a.) Leaving the neck and shoulders uncovered; cut low in the neck, or low-necked, as a dress.

Decolling (n.) Beheading.

Decolor (v. t.) To deprive of color; to bleach.

Decolorant (n.) A substance which removes color, or bleaches.

Decolorate (a.) Deprived of color.

Decolorate (v. t.) To decolor.

Decoloration (n.) The removal or absence of color.

Decolorize (v. t.) To deprive of color; to whiten.

Decomplex (a.) Repeatedly compound; made up of complex constituents.

Decomposable (a.) Capable of being resolved into constituent elements.

Decomposed (imp. & p. p.) of Decompose

Decomposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decompose

Decompose (v. t.) To separate the constituent parts of; to resolve into original elements; to set free from previously existing forms of chemical combination; to bring to dissolution; to rot or decay.

Decompose (v. i.) To become resolved or returned from existing combinations; to undergo dissolution; to decay; to rot.

Decomposed (a.) Separated or broken up; -- said of the crest of birds when the feathers are divergent.

Decomposite (a.) Compounded more than once; compounded with things already composite.

Decomposite (a.) See Decompound, a., 2.

Decomposite (n.) Anything decompounded.

Decomposition (n.) The act or process of resolving the constituent parts of a compound body or substance into its elementary parts; separation into constituent part; analysis; the decay or dissolution consequent on the removal or alteration of some of the ingredients of a compound; disintegration; as, the decomposition of wood, rocks, etc.

Decomposition (n.) The state of being reduced into original elements.

Decomposition (n.) Repeated composition; a combination of compounds.

Decompounded (imp. & p. p.) of Decompound

Decompounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decompound

Decompound (v. t.) To compound or mix with that is already compound; to compound a second time.

Decompound (v. t.) To reduce to constituent parts; to decompose.

Decompound (a.) Compound of what is already compounded; compounded a second time.

Decompound (a.) Several times compounded or divided, as a leaf or stem; decomposite.

Decompound (n.) A decomposite.

Decompoundable (a.) Capable of being decompounded.

Deconcentrate (v. t.) To withdraw from concentration; to decentralize.

Deconcentration (n.) Act of deconcentrating.

Deconcoct (v. t.) To decompose.

Deconsecrate (v. t.) To deprive of sacredness; to secularize.

Decorament (v. t.) Ornament.

Decorated (imp. & p. p.) of Decorate

Decorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decorate

Decorate (v. t.) To deck with that which is becoming, ornamental, or honorary; to adorn; to beautify; to embellish; as, to decorate the person; to decorate an edifice; to decorate a lawn with flowers; to decorate the mind with moral beauties; to decorate a hero with honors.

Decoration (n.) The act of adorning, embellishing, or honoring; ornamentation.

Decoration (n.) That which adorns, enriches, or beautifies; something added by way of embellishment; ornament.

Decoration (n.) Specifically, any mark of honor to be worn upon the person, as a medal, cross, or ribbon of an order of knighthood, bestowed for services in war, great achievements in literature, art, etc.

Decorative (a.) Suited to decorate or embellish; adorning.

Decorator (n.) One who decorates, adorns, or embellishes; specifically, an artisan whose business is the decoration of houses, esp. their interior decoration.

Decore (v. t.) To decorate; to beautify.

Decorement (n.) Ornament.

Decorous (a.) Suitable to a character, or to the time, place, and occasion; marked with decorum; becoming; proper; seemly; befitting; as, a decorous speech; decorous behavior; a decorous dress for a judge.

Decorticated (imp. & p. p.) of Decorticate

Decorticating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decorticate

Decorticate (v. t.) To divest of the bark, husk, or exterior coating; to husk; to peel; to hull.

Decortication (n.) The act of stripping off the bark, rind, hull, or outer coat.

Decorticator (n.) A machine for decorticating wood, hulling grain, etc.; also, an instrument for removing surplus bark or moss from fruit trees.

Decorum (n.) Propriety of manner or conduct; grace arising from suitableness of speech and behavior to one's own character, or to the place and occasion; decency of conduct; seemliness; that which is seemly or suitable.

Decoyed (imp. & p. p.) of Decoy

Decoying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decoy

Decoy (v. t.) To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare; to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops into an ambush; to decoy ducks into a net.

Decoy (n.) Anything intended to lead into a snare; a lure that deceives and misleads into danger, or into the power of an enemy; a bait.

Decoy (n.) A fowl, or the likeness of one, used by sportsmen to entice other fowl into a net or within shot.

Decoy (n.) A place into which wild fowl, esp. ducks, are enticed in order to take or shoot them.

Decoy (n.) A person employed by officers of justice, or parties exposed to injury, to induce a suspected person to commit an offense under circumstances that will lead to his detection.

Decoy-duck (n.) A duck used to lure wild ducks into a decoy; hence, a person employed to lure others into danger.

Decoyer (n.) One who decoys another.

Decoy-men (pl. ) of Decoy-man

Decoy-man (n.) A man employed in decoying wild fowl.

Decreased (imp. & p. p.) of Decrease

Decreasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decrease

Decrease (n.) To grow less, -- opposed to increase; to be diminished gradually, in size, degree, number, duration, etc., or in strength, quality, or excellence; as, they days decrease in length from June to December.

Decrease (v. t.) To cause to grow less; to diminish gradually; as, extravagance decreases one's means.

Decrease (v.) A becoming less; gradual diminution; decay; as, a decrease of revenue or of strength.

Decrease (v.) The wane of the moon.

Decreaseless (a.) Suffering no decrease.

Decreasing (a.) Becoming less and less; diminishing.

Decreation (n.) Destruction; -- opposed to creation.

Decree (n.) An order from one having authority, deciding what is to be done by a subordinate; also, a determination by one having power, deciding what is to be done or to take place; edict, law; authoritative ru// decision.

Decree (n.) A decision, order, or sentence, given in a cause by a court of equity or admiralty.

Decree (n.) A determination or judgment of an umpire on a case submitted to him.

Decree (n.) An edict or law made by a council for regulating any business within their jurisdiction; as, the decrees of ecclesiastical councils.

Decreed (imp. & p. p.) of Decree

Decreeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decree

Decree (v. t.) To determine judicially by authority, or by decree; to constitute by edict; to appoint by decree or law; to determine; to order; to ordain; as, a court decrees a restoration of property.

Decree (v. t.) To ordain by fate.

Decree (v. i.) To make decrees; -- used absolutely.

Decreeable (a.) Capable of being decreed.

Decreer (n.) One who decrees.

Decreet (n.) The final judgment of the Court of Session, or of an inferior court, by which the question at issue is decided.

Decrement (n.) The state of becoming gradually less; decrease; diminution; waste; loss.

Decrement (n.) The quantity lost by gradual diminution or waste; -- opposed to increment.

Decrement (n.) A name given by Hauy to the successive diminution of the layers of molecules, applied to the faces of the primitive form, by which he supposed the secondary forms to be produced.

Decrement (n.) The quantity by which a variable is diminished.

Decrepit (a.) Broken down with age; wasted and enfeebled by the infirmities of old age; feeble; worn out.

Decrepitated (imp. & p. p.) of Decrepitate

Decrepitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decrepitate

Decrepitate (v. t.) To roast or calcine so as to cause a crackling noise; as, to decrepitate salt.

Decrepitate (v. i.) To crackle, as salt in roasting.

Decrepitation (n.) The act of decrepitating; a crackling noise, such as salt makes when roasting.

Decrepitness (n.) Decrepitude.

Decrepitude (n.) The broken state produced by decay and the infirmities of age; infirm old age.

Decrescendo (a. & adv.) With decreasing volume of sound; -- a direction to performers, either written upon the staff (abbreviated Dec., or Decresc.), or indicated by the sign.

Decrescent (a.) Becoming less by gradual diminution; decreasing; as, a decrescent moon.

Decrescent (n.) A crescent with the horns directed towards the sinister.

Decretal (a.) Appertaining to a decree; containing a decree; as, a decretal epistle.

Decretal (a.) An authoritative order or decree; especially, a letter of the pope, determining some point or question in ecclesiastical law. The decretals form the second part of the canon law.

Decretal (a.) The collection of ecclesiastical decrees and decisions made, by order of Gregory IX., in 1234, by St. Raymond of Pennafort.

Decrete (n.) A decree.

Decretion (n.) A decrease.

Decretist (n.) One who studies, or professes the knowledge of, the decretals.

Decretive (n.) Having the force of a decree; determining.

Decretorial (a.) Decretory; authoritative.

Decretorily (adv.) In a decretory or definitive manner; by decree.

Decretory (a.) Established by a decree; definitive; settled.

Decretory (a.) Serving to determine; critical.

Decrew (v. i.) To decrease.

Decrial (n.) A crying down; a clamorous censure; condemnation by censure.

Decrier (n.) One who decries.

Decrown (v. t.) To deprive of a crown; to discrown.

Decrustation (n.) The removal of a crust.

Decried (imp. & p. p.) of Decry

Decrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decry

Decry (v. t.) To cry down; to censure as faulty, mean, or worthless; to clamor against; to blame clamorously; to discredit; to disparage.

Decubation (n.) Act of lying down; decumbence.

Decubitus (n.) An attitude assumed in lying down; as, the dorsal decubitus.

Decuman (a.) Large; chief; -- applied to an extraordinary billow, supposed by some to be every tenth in order. [R.] Also used substantively.

Decumbence (n.) Alt. of Decumbency

Decumbency (n.) The act or posture of lying down.

Decumbent (a.) Lying down; prostrate; recumbent.

Decumbent (a.) Reclining on the ground, as if too weak to stand, and tending to rise at the summit or apex; as, a decumbent stem.

Decumbently (adv.) In a decumbent posture.

Decumbiture (n.) Confinement to a sick bed, or time of taking to one's bed from sickness.

Decumbiture (n.) Aspect of the heavens at the time of taking to one's sick bed, by which the prognostics of recovery or death were made.

Decuple (a.) Tenfold.

Decuple (n.) A number ten times repeated.

Decupled (imp. & p. p.) of Decuple

Decupling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decuple

Decuple (v. t.) To make tenfold; to multiply by ten.

Decurion (n.) A head or chief over ten; especially, an officer who commanded a division of ten soldiers.

Decurionate (n.) The office of a decurion.

Decurrence (n.) The act of running down; a lapse.

Decurrent (a.) Extending downward; -- said of a leaf whose base extends downward and forms a wing along the stem.

Decursion (n.) A flowing; also, a hostile incursion.

Decursive (a.) Running down; decurrent.

Decursively (adv.) In a decursive manner.

Decurt (v. t.) To cut short; to curtail.

Decurtation (n.) Act of cutting short.

Decuries (pl. ) of Decury

Decury (n.) A set or squad of ten men under a decurion.

Decussated (imp. & p. p.) of Decussate

Decussating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decussate

Decussate (v. t.) To cross at an acute angle; to cut or divide in the form of X; to intersect; -- said of lines in geometrical figures, rays of light, nerves, etc.

Decussate (a.) Alt. of Decussated

Decussated (a.) Crossed; intersected.

Decussated (a.) Growing in pairs, each of which is at right angles to the next pair above or below; as, decussated leaves or branches.

Decussated (a.) Consisting of two rising and two falling clauses, placed in alternate opposition to each other; as, a decussated period.

Decussately (adv.) In a decussate manner.

Decussation (n.) Act of crossing at an acute angle, or state of being thus crossed; an intersection in the form of an X; as, the decussation of lines, nerves, etc.

Decussative (a.) Intersecting at acute angles.

Decussatively (adv.) Crosswise; in the form of an X.

Decyl (n.) A hydrocarbon radical, C10H21, never existing alone, but regarded as the characteristic constituent of a number of compounds of the paraffin series.

Decylic (a.) Allied to, or containing, the radical decyl.

Dedalian (a.) See Daedalian.

Dedalous (a.) See Daedalous.

Dedans (n.) A division, at one end of a tennis court, for spectators.

Dede (a.) Dead.

Dedecorate (v. t.) To bring to shame; to disgrace.

Dedecoration (n.) Disgrace; dishonor.

Dedecorous (a.) Disgraceful; unbecoming.

Dedentition (n.) The shedding of teeth.

Dedicate (p. a.) Dedicated; set apart; devoted; consecrated.

Dedicated (imp. & p. p.) of Dedicate

Dedicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dedicate

Dedicate (v. t.) To set apart and consecrate, as to a divinity, or for sacred uses; to devote formally and solemnly; as, to dedicate vessels, treasures, a temple, or a church, to a religious use.

Dedicate (v. t.) To devote, set apart, or give up, as one's self, to a duty or service.

Dedicate (v. t.) To inscribe or address, as to a patron.

Dedicatee (n.) One to whom a thing is dedicated; -- correlative to dedicator.

Dedication (n.) The act of setting apart or consecrating to a divine Being, or to a sacred use, often with religious solemnities; solemn appropriation; as, the dedication of Solomon's temple.

Dedication (n.) A devoting or setting aside for any particular purpose; as, a dedication of lands to public use.

Dedication (n.) An address to a patron or friend, prefixed to a book, testifying respect, and often recommending the work to his special protection and favor.

Dedicator (n.) One who dedicates; more especially, one who inscribes a book to the favor of a patron, or to one whom he desires to compliment.

Dedicatorial (a.) Dedicatory.

Dedicatory (a.) Constituting or serving as a dedication; complimental.

Dedicatory (n.) Dedication.

Dedimus (n.) A writ to commission private persons to do some act in place of a judge, as to examine a witness, etc.

Dedition (n.) The act of yielding; surrender.

Dedolent (a.) Feeling no compunction; apathetic.

Deduced (imp. & p. p.) of Deduce

Deducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deduce

Deduce (v. t.) To lead forth.

Deduce (v. t.) To take away; to deduct; to subtract; as, to deduce a part from the whole.

Deduce (v. t.) To derive or draw; to derive by logical process; to obtain or arrive at as the result of reasoning; to gather, as a truth or opinion, from what precedes or from premises; to infer; -- with from or out of.

Deducement (n.) Inference; deduction; thing deduced.

Deducibility (n.) Deducibleness.

Deducible (a.) Capable of being deduced or inferred; derivable by reasoning, as a result or consequence.

Deducible (a.) Capable of being brought down.

Deducibleness (n.) The quality of being deducible; deducibility.

Deducibly (adv.) By deduction.

Deducive (a.) That deduces; inferential.

Deducted (imp. & p. p.) of Deduct

Deducting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deduct

Deduct (v. t.) To lead forth or out.

Deduct (v. t.) To take away, separate, or remove, in numbering, estimating, or calculating; to subtract; -- often with from or out of.

Deduct (v. t.) To reduce; to diminish.

Deductible (a.) Capable of being deducted, taken away, or withdrawn.

Deductible (a.) Deducible; consequential.

Deduction (n.) Act or process of deducing or inferring.

Deduction (n.) Act of deducting or taking away; subtraction; as, the deduction of the subtrahend from the minuend.

Deduction (n.) That which is deduced or drawn from premises by a process of reasoning; an inference; a conclusion.

Deduction (n.) That which is deducted; the part taken away; abatement; as, a deduction from the yearly rent.

Deductive (a.) Of or pertaining to deduction; capable of being deduced from premises; deducible.

Deductively (adv.) By deduction; by way of inference; by consequence.

Deductor (n.) The pilot whale or blackfish.

Deduit (n.) Delight; pleasure.

Deduplication (n.) The division of that which is morphologically one organ into two or more, as the division of an organ of a plant into a pair or cluster.

Deed (a.) Dead.

Deed (v. t.) That which is done or effected by a responsible agent; an act; an action; a thing done; -- a word of extensive application, including, whatever is done, good or bad, great or small.

Deed (v. t.) Illustrious act; achievement; exploit.

Deed (v. t.) Power of action; agency; efficiency.

Deed (v. t.) Fact; reality; -- whence we have indeed.

Deed (v. t.) A sealed instrument in writing, on paper or parchment, duly executed and delivered, containing some transfer, bargain, or contract.

Deed (v. t.) Performance; -- followed by of.

Deed (v. t.) To convey or transfer by deed; as, he deeded all his estate to his eldest son.

Deedful (a.) Full of deeds or exploits; active; stirring.

Deedless (a.) Not performing, or not having performed, deeds or exploits; inactive.

Deed poll () A deed of one part, or executed by only one party, and distinguished from an indenture by having the edge of the parchment or paper cut even, or polled as it was anciently termed, instead of being indented.

Deedy (a.) Industrious; active.

Deemed (imp. & p. p.) of Deem

Deeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deem

Deem (v.) To decide; to judge; to sentence; to condemn.

Deem (v.) To account; to esteem; to think; to judge; to hold in opinion; to regard.

Deem (v. i.) To be of opinion; to think; to estimate; to opine; to suppose.

Deem (v. i.) To pass judgment.

Deem (n.) Opinion; judgment.

Deemster (n.) A judge in the Isle of Man who decides controversies without process.

Deep (superl.) Extending far below the surface; of great perpendicular dimension (measured from the surface downward, and distinguished from high, which is measured upward); far to the bottom; having a certain depth; as, a deep sea.

Deep (superl.) Extending far back from the front or outer part; of great horizontal dimension (measured backward from the front or nearer part, mouth, etc.); as, a deep cave or recess or wound; a gallery ten seats deep; a company of soldiers six files deep.

Deep (superl.) Low in situation; lying far below the general surface; as, a deep valley.

Deep (superl.) Hard to penetrate or comprehend; profound; -- opposed to shallow or superficial; intricate; mysterious; not obvious; obscure; as, a deep subject or plot.

Deep (superl.) Of penetrating or far-reaching intellect; not superficial; thoroughly skilled; sagacious; cunning.

Deep (superl.) Profound; thorough; complete; unmixed; intense; heavy; heartfelt; as, deep distress; deep melancholy; deep horror.

Deep (superl.) Strongly colored; dark; intense; not light or thin; as, deep blue or crimson.

Deep (superl.) Of low tone; full-toned; not high or sharp; grave; heavy.

Deep (superl.) Muddy; boggy; sandy; -- said of roads.

Deep (adv.) To a great depth; with depth; far down; profoundly; deeply.

Deep (n.) That which is deep, especially deep water, as the sea or ocean; an abyss; a great depth.

Deep (n.) That which is profound, not easily fathomed, or incomprehensible; a moral or spiritual depth or abyss.

Deepened (imp. & p. p.) of Deepen

Deepening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deepen

Deepen (v. t.) To make deep or deeper; to increase the depth of; to sink lower; as, to deepen a well or a channel.

Deepen (v. t.) To make darker or more intense; to darken; as, the event deepened the prevailing gloom.

Deepen (v. t.) To make more poignant or affecting; to increase in degree; as, to deepen grief or sorrow.

Deepen (v. t.) To make more grave or low in tone; as, to deepen the tones of an organ.

Deepen (v. i.) To become deeper; as, the water deepens at every cast of the lead; the plot deepens.

Deep-fet (a.) Deeply fetched or drawn.

Deep-laid (a.) Laid deeply; formed with cunning and sagacity; as, deep-laid plans.

Deeply (adv.) At or to a great depth; far below the surface; as, to sink deeply.

Deeply (adv.) Profoundly; thoroughly; not superficially; in a high degree; intensely; as, deeply skilled in ethics.

Deeply (adv.) Very; with a tendency to darkness of color.

Deeply (adv.) Gravely; with low or deep tone; as, a deeply toned instrument.

Deeply (adv.) With profound skill; with art or intricacy; as, a deeply laid plot or intrigue.

Deep-mouthed (a.) Having a loud and sonorous voice.

Deepness (n.) The state or quality of being deep, profound, mysterious, secretive, etc.; depth; profundity; -- opposed to shallowness.

Deepness (n.) Craft; insidiousness.

Deep-read (a.) Profoundly book- learned.

Deep-sea (a.) Of or pertaining to the deeper parts of the sea; as, a deep-sea line (i. e., a line to take soundings at a great depth); deep-sea lead; deep-sea soundings, explorations, etc.

Deep-waisted (a.) Having a deep waist, as when, in a ship, the poop and forecastle are much elevated above the deck.

Deer (n. sing. & pl.) Any animal; especially, a wild animal.

Deer (n. sing. & pl.) A ruminant of the genus Cervus, of many species, and of related genera of the family Cervidae. The males, and in some species the females, have solid antlers, often much branched, which are shed annually. Their flesh, for which they are hunted, is called venison.

Deerberry (n.) A shrub of the blueberry group (Vaccinium stamineum); also, its bitter, greenish white berry; -- called also squaw huckleberry.

Deergrass (n.) An American genus (Rhexia) of perennial herbs, with opposite leaves, and showy flowers (usually bright purple), with four petals and eight stamens, -- the only genus of the order Melastomaceae inhabiting a temperate clime.

Deerhound (n.) One of a large and fleet breed of hounds used in hunting deer; a staghound.

Deerlet (n.) A chevrotain. See Kanchil, and Napu.

Deer-neck (n.) A deerlike, or thin, ill-formed neck, as of a horse.

Deerskin (n.) The skin of a deer, or the leather which is made from it.

Deerstalker (n.) One who practices deerstalking.

Deerstalking (n.) The hunting of deer on foot, by stealing upon them unawares.

Deer's-tongue (n.) A plant (Liatris odoratissima) whose fleshy leaves give out a fragrance compared to vanilla.

Dees (n. pl.) Dice.

Dees (n.) A dais.

Deesis (n.) An invocation of, or address to, the Supreme Being.

Deess (n.) A goddess.

Deev (n.) See Dev.

Defaced (imp. & p. p.) of Deface

Defacing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deface

Deface (v. t.) To destroy or mar the face or external appearance of; to disfigure; to injure, spoil, or mar, by effacing or obliterating important features or portions of; as, to deface a monument; to deface an edifice; to deface writing; to deface a note, deed, or bond; to deface a record.

Deface (v. t.) To destroy; to make null.

Defacement (n.) The act of defacing, or the condition of being defaced; injury to the surface or exterior; obliteration.

Defacement (n.) That which mars or disfigures.

Defacer (n.) One who, or that which, defaces or disfigures.

De facto () Actually; in fact; in reality; as, a king de facto, -- distinguished from a king de jure, or by right.

Defail (v. t.) To cause to fail.

Defailance (n.) Failure; miscarriage.

Defailure (n.) Failure.

Defalcated (imp. & p. p.) of Defalcate

Defalcating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defalcate

Defalcate (v. t.) To cut off; to take away or deduct a part of; -- used chiefly of money, accounts, rents, income, etc.

Defalcate (v. i.) To commit defalcation; to embezzle money held in trust.

Defalcation (n.) A lopping off; a diminution; abatement; deficit. Specifically: Reduction of a claim by deducting a counterclaim; set- off.

Defalcation (n.) That which is lopped off, diminished, or abated.

Defalcation (n.) An abstraction of money, etc., by an officer or agent having it in trust; an embezzlement.

Defalcator (n.) A defaulter or embezzler.

Defalk (v. t.) To lop off; to abate.

Defamation (n.) Act of injuring another's reputation by any slanderous communication, written or oral; the wrong of maliciously injuring the good name of another; slander; detraction; calumny; aspersion.

Defamatory (a.) Containing defamation; injurious to reputation; calumnious; slanderous; as, defamatory words; defamatory writings.

Defamed (imp. & p. p.) of Defame

Defaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defame

Defame (v. t.) To harm or destroy the good fame or reputation of; to disgrace; especially, to speak evil of maliciously; to dishonor by slanderous reports; to calumniate; to asperse.

Defame (v. t.) To render infamous; to bring into disrepute.

Defame (v. t.) To charge; to accuse.

Defame (n.) Dishonor.

Defamer (n.) One who defames; a slanderer; a detractor; a calumniator.

Defamingly (adv.) In a defamatory manner.

Defamous (a.) Defamatory.

Defatigable (a.) Capable of being wearied or tired out.

Defatigate (v. t.) To weary or tire out; to fatigue.

Defatigation (n.) Weariness; fatigue.

Default (n.) A failing or failure; omission of that which ought to be done; neglect to do what duty or law requires; as, this evil has happened through the governor's default.

Default (n.) Fault; offense; ill deed; wrong act; failure in virtue or wisdom.

Default (n.) A neglect of, or failure to take, some step necessary to secure the benefit of law, as a failure to appear in court at a day assigned, especially of the defendant in a suit when called to make answer; also of jurors, witnesses, etc.

Defaulted (imp. & p. p.) of Default

Defaulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Default

Default (v. i.) To fail in duty; to offend.

Default (v. i.) To fail in fulfilling a contract, agreement, or duty.

Default (v. i.) To fail to appear in court; to let a case go by default.

Default (v. t.) To fail to perform or pay; to be guilty of neglect of; to omit; as, to default a dividend.

Default (v. t.) To call a defendant or other party whose duty it is to be present in court, and make entry of his default, if he fails to appear; to enter a default against.

Default (v. t.) To leave out of account; to omit.

Defaulter (n.) One who makes default; one who fails to appear in court when court when called.

Defaulter (n.) One who fails to perform a duty; a delinquent; particularly, one who fails to account for public money intrusted to his care; a peculator; a defalcator.

Defeasance (n.) A defeat; an overthrow.

Defeasance (n.) A rendering null or void.

Defeasance (n.) A condition, relating to a deed, which being performed, the deed is defeated or rendered void; or a collateral deed, made at the same time with a feoffment, or other conveyance, containing conditions, on the performance of which the estate then created may be defeated.

Defeasanced (a.) Liable to defeasance; capable of being made void or forfeited.

Defeasible (a.) Capable of being annulled or made void; as, a defeasible title.

Defeated (imp. & p. p.) of Defeat

Defeating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defeat

Defeat (v. t.) To undo; to disfigure; to destroy.

Defeat (v. t.) To render null and void, as a title; to frustrate, as hope; to deprive, as of an estate.

Defeat (v. t.) To overcome or vanquish, as an army; to check, disperse, or ruin by victory; to overthrow.

Defeat (v. t.) To resist with success; as, to defeat an assault.

Defeat (v.) An undoing or annulling; destruction.

Defeat (v.) Frustration by rendering null and void, or by prevention of success; as, the defeat of a plan or design.

Defeat (v.) An overthrow, as of an army in battle; loss of a battle; repulse suffered; discomfiture; -- opposed to victory.

Defeature (n.) Overthrow; defeat.

Defeature (n.) Disfigurement; deformity.

Defeatured (p. p.) Changed in features; deformed.

Defecate (a.) Freed from anything that can pollute, as dregs, lees, etc.; refined; purified.

Defecated (imp. & p. p.) of Defecate

Defecating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defecate

Defecate (v. t.) To clear from impurities, as lees, dregs, etc.; to clarify; to purify; to refine.

Defecate (v. t.) To free from extraneous or polluting matter; to clear; to purify, as from that which materializes.

Defecate (v. i.) To become clear, pure, or free.

Defecate (v. i.) To void excrement.

Defecation (n.) The act of separating from impurities, as lees or dregs; purification.

Defecation (n.) The act or process of voiding excrement.

Defecator (n.) That which cleanses or purifies; esp., an apparatus for removing the feculencies of juices and sirups.

Defect (n.) Want or absence of something necessary for completeness or perfection; deficiency; -- opposed to superfluity.

Defect (n.) Failing; fault; imperfection, whether physical or moral; blemish; as, a defect in the ear or eye; a defect in timber or iron; a defect of memory or judgment.

Defect (v. i.) To fail; to become deficient.

Defect (v. t.) To injure; to damage.

Defectibility (n.) Deficiency; imperfection.

Defectible (a.) Liable to defect; imperfect.

Defection (n.) Act of abandoning a person or cause to which one is bound by allegiance or duty, or to which one has attached himself; desertion; failure in duty; a falling away; apostasy; backsliding.

Defectionist (n.) One who advocates or encourages defection.

Defectious (a.) Having defects; imperfect.

Defective (a.) Wanting in something; incomplete; lacking a part; deficient; imperfect; faulty; -- applied either to natural or moral qualities; as, a defective limb; defective timber; a defective copy or account; a defective character; defective rules.

Defective (a.) Lacking some of the usual forms of declension or conjugation; as, a defective noun or verb.

Defectuosity (n.) Great imperfection.

Defectuous (a.) Full of defects; imperfect.

Defedation (n.) The act of making foul; pollution.

Defence (n. & v. t.) See Defense.

Defended (imp. & p. p.) of Defend

Defending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defend

Defend (v. t.) To ward or fend off; to drive back or away; to repel.

Defend (v. t.) To prohibit; to forbid.

Defend (v. t.) To repel danger or harm from; to protect; to secure against; attack; to maintain against force or argument; to uphold; to guard; as, to defend a town; to defend a cause; to defend character; to defend the absent; -- sometimes followed by from or against; as, to defend one's self from, or against, one's enemies.

Defend (v. t.) To deny the right of the plaintiff in regard to (the suit, or the wrong charged); to oppose or resist, as a claim at law; to contest, as a suit.

Defendable (a.) Capable of being defended; defensible.

Defendant (a.) Serving, or suitable, for defense; defensive.

Defendant (a.) Making defense.

Defendant (n.) One who defends; a defender.

Defendant (n.) A person required to make answer in an action or suit; -- opposed to plaintiff.

Defendee (n.) One who is defended.

Defender (n.) One who defends; one who maintains, supports, protects, or vindicates; a champion; an advocate; a vindicator.

Defendress (n.) A female defender.

Defensative (n.) That which serves to protect or defend.

Defense (n.) Alt. of Defence

Defence (n.) The act of defending, or the state of being defended; protection, as from violence or danger.

Defence (n.) That which defends or protects; anything employed to oppose attack, ward off violence or danger, or maintain security; a guard; a protection.

Defence (n.) Protecting plea; vindication; justification.

Defence (n.) The defendant's answer or plea; an opposing or denial of the truth or validity of the plaintiff's or prosecutor's case; the method of proceeding adopted by the defendant to protect himself against the plaintiff's action.

Defence (n.) Act or skill in making defense; defensive plan or policy; practice in self defense, as in fencing, boxing, etc.

Defence (n.) Prohibition; a prohibitory ordinance.

Defense (v. t.) To furnish with defenses; to fortify.

Defenseless (a.) Destitute of defense; unprepared to resist attack; unable to oppose; unprotected.

Defenser (n.) Defender.

Defensibility (n.) Capability of being defended.

Defensible (a.) Capable of being defended; as, a defensible city, or a defensible cause.

Defensible (a.) Capable of offering defense.

Defensibleness (n.) Capability of being defended; defensibility.

Defensive (a.) Serving to defend or protect; proper for defense; opposed to offensive; as, defensive armor.

Defensive (a.) Carried on by resisting attack or aggression; -- opposed to offensive; as, defensive war.

Defensive (a.) In a state or posture of defense.

Defensive (n.) That which defends; a safeguard.

Defensively (adv.) On the defensive.

Defensor (n.) A defender.

Defensor (n.) A defender or an advocate in court; a guardian or protector.

Defensor (n.) The patron of a church; an officer having charge of the temporal affairs of a church.

Defensory (a.) Tending to defend; defensive; as, defensory preparations.

Deferred (imp. & p. p.) of Defer

Deferring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defer

Defer (v. t.) To put off; to postpone to a future time; to delay the execution of; to delay; to withhold.

Defer (v. i.) To put off; to delay to act; to wait.

Defer (v. t.) To render or offer.

Defer (v. t.) To lay before; to submit in a respectful manner; to refer; -- with to.

Defer (v. i.) To yield deference to the wishes of another; to submit to the opinion of another, or to authority; -- with to.

Deference (n.) A yielding of judgment or preference from respect to the wishes or opinion of another; submission in opinion; regard; respect; complaisance.

Deferent (a.) Serving to carry; bearing.

Deferent (n.) That which carries or conveys.

Deferent (n.) An imaginary circle surrounding the earth, in whose periphery either the heavenly body or the center of the heavenly body's epicycle was supposed to be carried round.

Deferential (a.) Expressing deference; accustomed to defer.

Deferentially (adv.) With deference.

Deferment (n.) The act of delaying; postponement.

Deferrer (n.) One who defers or puts off.

Defervescence (n.) Alt. of Defervescency

Defervescency (n.) A subsiding from a state of ebullition; loss of heat; lukewarmness.

Defervescency (n.) The subsidence of a febrile process; as, the stage of defervescence in pneumonia.

Defeudalize (v. t.) To deprive of the feudal character or form.

Defiance (n.) The act of defying, putting in opposition, or provoking to combat; a challenge; a provocation; a summons to combat.

Defiance (n.) A state of opposition; willingness to flight; disposition to resist; contempt of opposition.

Defiance (n.) A casting aside; renunciation; rejection.

Defiant (a.) Full of defiance; bold; insolent; as, a defiant spirit or act.

Defiatory (a.) Bidding or manifesting defiance.

Defibrinate (v. t.) To deprive of fibrin, as fresh blood or lymph by stirring with twigs.

Defibrination (n.) The act or process of depriving of fibrin.

Defibrinize (v. t.) To defibrinate.

Deficience (n.) Same as Deficiency.

Deficiencies (pl. ) of Deficiency

Deficiency (n.) The state of being deficient; inadequacy; want; failure; imperfection; shortcoming; defect.

Deficient (a.) Wanting, to make up completeness; wanting, as regards a requirement; not sufficient; inadequate; defective; imperfect; incomplete; lacking; as, deficient parts; deficient estate; deficient strength; deficient in judgment.

Deficit (n.) Deficiency in amount or quality; a falling short; lack; as, a deficit in taxes, revenue, etc.

Defier (n.) One who dares and defies; a contemner; as, a defier of the laws.

Defiguration (n.) Disfiguration; mutilation.

Defigure (v. t.) To delineate.

Defiladed (imp. & p. p.) of Defilade

Defilading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defilade

Defilade (v. t.) To raise, as a rampart, so as to shelter interior works commanded from some higher point.

Defilading (n.) The art or act of determining the directions and heights of the lines of rampart with reference to the protection of the interior from exposure to an enemy's fire from any point within range, or from any works which may be erected.

Defiled (imp. & p. p.) of Defile

Defiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defile

Defile (v. i.) To march off in a line, file by file; to file off.

Defile (v. t.) Same as Defilade.

Defile (n.) Any narrow passage or gorge in which troops can march only in a file, or with a narrow front; a long, narrow pass between hills, rocks, etc.

Defile (n.) The act of defilading a fortress, or of raising the exterior works in order to protect the interior. See Defilade.

Defile (v. t.) To make foul or impure; to make filthy; to dirty; to befoul; to pollute.

Defile (v. t.) To soil or sully; to tarnish, as reputation; to taint.

Defile (v. t.) To injure in purity of character; to corrupt.

Defile (v. t.) To corrupt the chastity of; to debauch; to violate.

Defile (v. t.) To make ceremonially unclean; to pollute.

Defilement (n.) The protection of the interior walls of a fortification from an enfilading fire, as by covering them, or by a high parapet on the exposed side.

Defilement (n.) The act of defiling, or state of being defiled, whether physically or morally; pollution; foulness; dirtiness; uncleanness.

Defiler (n.) One who defiles; one who corrupts or violates; that which pollutes.

Defiliation (n.) Abstraction of a child from its parents.

Definable (a.) Capable of being defined, limited, or explained; determinable; describable by definition; ascertainable; as, definable limits; definable distinctions or regulations; definable words.

Defined (imp. & p. p.) of Define

Defining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Define

Define (v. t.) To fix the bounds of; to bring to a termination; to end.

Define (v. t.) To determine or clearly exhibit the boundaries of; to mark the limits of; as, to define the extent of a kingdom or country.

Define (v. t.) To determine with precision; to mark out with distinctness; to ascertain or exhibit clearly; as, the defining power of an optical instrument.

Define (v. t.) To determine the precise signification of; to fix the meaning of; to describe accurately; to explain; to expound or interpret; as, to define a word, a phrase, or a scientific term.

Define (v. i.) To determine; to decide.

Definement (n.) The act of defining; definition; description.

Definer (n.) One who defines or explains.

Definite (a.) Having certain or distinct; determinate in extent or greatness; limited; fixed; as, definite dimensions; a definite measure; a definite period or interval.

Definite (a.) Having certain limits in signification; determinate; certain; precise; fixed; exact; clear; as, a definite word, term, or expression.

Definite (a.) Determined; resolved.

Definite (a.) Serving to define or restrict; limiting; determining; as, the definite article.

Definite (n.) A thing defined or determined.

Definitely (adv.) In a definite manner; with precision; precisely; determinately.

Definiteness (n.) The state of being definite; determinateness; precision; certainty.

Definition (n.) The act of defining; determination of the limits; as, a telescope accurate in definition.

Definition (n.) Act of ascertaining and explaining the signification; a description of a thing by its properties; an explanation of the meaning of a word or term; as, the definition of circle; the definition of wit; an exact definition; a loose definition.

Definition (n.) Description; sort.

Definition (n.) An exact enunciation of the constituents which make up the logical essence.

Definition (n.) Distinctness or clearness, as of an image formed by an optical instrument; precision in detail.

Definitional (a.) Relating to definition; of the nature of a definition; employed in defining.

Definitive (a.) Determinate; positive; final; conclusive; unconditional; express.

Definitive (a.) Limiting; determining; as, a definitive word.

Definitive (a.) Determined; resolved.

Definitive (n.) A word used to define or limit the extent of the signification of a common noun, such as the definite article, and some pronouns.

Definitively (adv.) In a definitive manner.

Definitiveness (n.) The quality of being definitive.

Definitude (n.) Definiteness.

Defix (v. t.) To fix; to fasten; to establish.

Deflagrability (n.) The state or quality of being deflagrable.

Deflagrable (a.) Burning with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; hence, slightly explosive; liable to snap and crackle when heated, as salt.

Deflagrated (imp. & p. p.) of Deflagrate

Deflagrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deflagrate

Deflagrate (v. i.) To burn with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; also, to snap and crackle with slight explosions when heated, as salt.

Deflagrate (v. t.) To cause to burn with sudden and sparkling combustion, as by the action of intense heat; to burn or vaporize suddenly; as, to deflagrate refractory metals in the oxyhydrogen flame.

Deflagration (n.) A burning up; conflagration.

Deflagration (n.) The act or process of deflagrating.

Deflagrator (n.) A form of the voltaic battery having large plates, used for producing rapid and powerful combustion.

Deflate (v. t.) To reduce from an inflated condition.

Deflected (imp. & p. p.) of Deflect

Deflecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deflect

Deflect (v. t.) To cause to turn aside; to bend; as, rays of light are often deflected.

Deflect (v. i.) To turn aside; to deviate from a right or a horizontal line, or from a proper position, course or direction; to swerve.

Deflectable (a.) Capable of being deflected.

Deflected (a.) Turned aside; deviating from a direct line or course.

Deflected (a.) Bent downward; deflexed.

Deflection (n.) The act of turning aside, or state of being turned aside; a turning from a right line or proper course; a bending, esp. downward; deviation.

Deflection (n.) The deviation of a shot or ball from its true course.

Deflection (n.) A deviation of the rays of light toward the surface of an opaque body; inflection; diffraction.

Deflection (n.) The bending which a beam or girder undergoes from its own weight or by reason of a load.

Deflectionization (n.) The act of freeing from inflections.

Deflectionize (v. t.) To free from inflections.

Deflective (a.) Causing deflection.

Deflector (n.) That which deflects, as a diaphragm in a furnace, or a cone in a lamp (to deflect and mingle air and gases and help combustion).

Deflexed (a.) Bent abruptly downward.

Deflexion (n.) See Deflection.

Deflexure (n.) A bending or turning aside; deflection.

Deflorate (a.) Past the flowering state; having shed its pollen.

Defloration (n.) The act of deflouring; as, the defloration of a virgin.

Defloration (n.) That which is chosen as the flower or choicest part; careful culling or selection.

Defloured (imp. & p. p.) of Deflour

Deflouring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deflour

Deflour (v. t.) To deprive of flowers.

Deflour (v. t.) To take away the prime beauty and grace of; to rob of the choicest ornament.

Deflour (v. t.) To deprive of virginity, as a woman; to violate; to ravish; also, to seduce.

Deflourer (n.) One who deflours; a ravisher.

Deflow (v. i.) To flow down.

Deflower (v. t.) Same as Deflour.

Deflowerer (n.) See Deflourer.

Defluous (a.) Flowing down; falling off.

Deflux (n.) Downward flow.

Defluxion (n.) A discharge or flowing of humors or fluid matter, as from the nose in catarrh; -- sometimes used synonymously with inflammation.

Defly (adv.) Deftly.

Defoedation (n.) Defedation.

Defoliate (a.) Alt. of Defoliated

Defoliated (a.) Deprived of leaves, as by their natural fall.

Defoliation (n.) The separation of ripened leaves from a branch or stem; the falling or shedding of the leaves.

Deforced (imp. & p. p.) of Deforce

Deforcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deforce

Deforce (v.) To keep from the rightful owner; to withhold wrongfully the possession of, as of lands or a freehold.

Deforce (v.) To resist the execution of the law; to oppose by force, as an officer in the execution of his duty.

Deforcement (n.) A keeping out by force or wrong; a wrongful withholding, as of lands or tenements, to which another has a right.

Deforcement (n.) Resistance to an officer in the execution of law.

Deforceor (n.) Same as Deforciant.

Deforciant (n.) One who keeps out of possession the rightful owner of an estate.

Deforciant (n.) One against whom a fictitious action of fine was brought.

Deforciation (n.) Same as Deforcement, n.

Deforest (v. t.) To clear of forests; to disforest.

Deformed (imp. & p. p.) of Deform

Deforming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deform

Deform (v. t.) To spoil the form of; to mar in form; to misshape; to disfigure.

Deform (v. t.) To render displeasing; to deprive of comeliness, grace, or perfection; to dishonor.

Deform (a.) Deformed; misshapen; shapeless; horrid.

Deformation (n.) The act of deforming, or state of anything deformed.

Deformation (n.) Transformation; change of shape.

Deformed (a.) Unnatural or distorted in form; having a deformity; misshapen; disfigured; as, a deformed person; a deformed head.

Deformer (n.) One who deforms.

Deformities (pl. ) of Deformity

Deformity (a.) The state of being deformed; want of proper form or symmetry; any unnatural form or shape; distortion; irregularity of shape or features; ugliness.

Deformity (a.) Anything that destroys beauty, grace, or propriety; irregularity; absurdity; gross deviation from order or the established laws of propriety; as, deformity in an edifice; deformity of character.

Deforser (n.) A deforciant.

Defoul (v. t.) To tread down.

Defoul (v. t.) To make foul; to defile.

Defrauded (imp. & p. p.) of Defraud

Defrauding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defraud

Defraud (v. t.) To deprive of some right, interest, or property, by a deceitful device; to withhold from wrongfully; to injure by embezzlement; to cheat; to overreach; as, to defraud a servant, or a creditor, or the state; -- with of before the thing taken or withheld.

Defraudation (n.) The act of defrauding; a taking by fraud.

Defrauder (n.) One who defrauds; a cheat; an embezzler; a peculator.

Defraudment (n.) Privation by fraud; defrauding.

Defrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Defray

Defraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defray

Defray (v. t.) To pay or discharge; to serve in payment of; to provide for, as a charge, debt, expenses, costs, etc.

Defray (v. t.) To avert or appease, as by paying off; to satisfy; as, to defray wrath.

Defrayal (n.) The act of defraying; payment; as, the defrayal of necessary costs.

Defrayer (n.) One who pays off expenses.

Defrayment (n.) Payment of charges.

Deft (a.) Apt; fit; dexterous; clever; handy; spruce; neat.

Deftly (adv.) Aptly; fitly; dexterously; neatly.

Deftness (n.) The quality of being deft.

Defunct (a.) Having finished the course of life; dead; deceased.

Defunct (n.) A dead person; one deceased.

Defunction (n.) Death.

Defunctive (a.) Funereal.

Defuse (v. t.) To disorder; to make shapeless.

Defied (imp. & p. p.) of Defy

Defying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defy

Defy (v. t.) To renounce or dissolve all bonds of affiance, faith, or obligation with; to reject, refuse, or renounce.

Defy (v. t.) To provoke to combat or strife; to call out to combat; to challenge; to dare; to brave; to set at defiance; to treat with contempt; as, to defy an enemy; to defy the power of a magistrate; to defy the arguments of an opponent; to defy public opinion.

Defy (n.) A challenge.

Degarnished (imp. & p. p.) of Degarnish

Degarnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Degarnish

Degarnish (v. t.) To strip or deprive of entirely, as of furniture, ornaments, etc.; to disgarnish; as, to degarnish a house, etc.

Degarnish (v. t.) To deprive of a garrison, or of troops necessary for defense; as, to degarnish a city or fort.

Degarnishment (n.) The act of depriving, as of furniture, apparatus, or a garrison.

Degender (v. i.) Alt. of Degener

Degener (v. i.) To degenerate.

Degeneracy (a.) The act of becoming degenerate; a growing worse.

Degeneracy (a.) The state of having become degenerate; decline in good qualities; deterioration; meanness.

Degenerate (a.) Having become worse than one's kind, or one's former state; having declined in worth; having lost in goodness; deteriorated; degraded; unworthy; base; low.

Degenerated (imp. & p. p.) of Degenerate

Degenerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Degenerate

Degenerate (v. i.) To be or grow worse than one's kind, or than one was originally; hence, to be inferior; to grow poorer, meaner, or more vicious; to decline in good qualities; to deteriorate.

Degenerate (v. i.) To fall off from the normal quality or the healthy structure of its kind; to become of a lower type.

Degenerately (adv.) In a degenerate manner; unworthily.

Degenerateness (n.) Degeneracy.

Degeneration (n.) The act or state of growing worse, or the state of having become worse; decline; degradation; debasement; degeneracy; deterioration.

Degeneration (n.) That condition of a tissue or an organ in which its vitality has become either diminished or perverted; a substitution of a lower for a higher form of structure; as, fatty degeneration of the liver.

Degeneration (n.) A gradual deterioration, from natural causes, of any class of animals or plants or any particular organ or organs; hereditary degradation of type.

Degeneration (n.) The thing degenerated.

Degenerationist (n.) A believer in the theory of degeneration, or hereditary degradation of type; as, the degenerationists hold that savagery is the result of degeneration from a superior state.

Degenerative (a.) Undergoing or producing degeneration; tending to degenerate.

Degenerous (a.) Degenerate; base.

Degenerously (adv.) Basely.

Deglazing (n.) The process of giving a dull or ground surface to glass by acid or by mechanical means.

Degloried (a.) Deprived of glory; dishonored.

Deglutinated (imp. & p. p.) of Deglutinate

Deglutinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deglutinate

Deglutinate (v. t.) To loosen or separate by dissolving the glue which unties; to unglue.

Deglutination (n.) The act of ungluing.

Deglutition (n.) The act or process of swallowing food; the power of swallowing.

Deglutitious (a.) Pertaining to deglutition.

Deglutitory (a.) Serving for, or aiding in, deglutition.

Degradation (n.) The act of reducing in rank, character, or reputation, or of abasing; a lowering from one's standing or rank in office or society; diminution; as, the degradation of a peer, a knight, a general, or a bishop.

Degradation (n.) The state of being reduced in rank, character, or reputation; baseness; moral, physical, or intellectual degeneracy; disgrace; abasement; debasement.

Degradation (n.) Diminution or reduction of strength, efficacy, or value; degeneration; deterioration.

Degradation (n.) A gradual wearing down or wasting, as of rocks and banks, by the action of water, frost etc.

Degradation (n.) The state or condition of a species or group which exhibits degraded forms; degeneration.

Degradation (n.) Arrest of development, or degeneration of any organ, or of the body as a whole.

Degraded (imp. & p. p.) of Degrade

Degrading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Degrade

Degrade (v. t.) To reduce from a higher to a lower rank or degree; to lower in rank; to deprive of office or dignity; to strip of honors; as, to degrade a nobleman, or a general officer.

Degrade (v. t.) To reduce in estimation, character, or reputation; to lessen the value of; to lower the physical, moral, or intellectual character of; to debase; to bring shame or contempt upon; to disgrace; as, vice degrades a man.

Degrade (v. t.) To reduce in altitude or magnitude, as hills and mountains; to wear down.

Degrade (v. i.) To degenerate; to pass from a higher to a lower type of structure; as, a family of plants or animals degrades through this or that genus or group of genera.

Degraded (a.) Reduced in rank, character, or reputation; debased; sunken; low; base.

Degraded (a.) Having the typical characters or organs in a partially developed condition, or lacking certain parts.

Degraded (a.) Having steps; -- said of a cross each of whose extremities finishes in steps growing larger as they leave the center; -- termed also on degrees.

Degradement (n.) Deprivation of rank or office; degradation.

Degradingly (adv.) In a degrading manner.

Degravation (a.) The act of making heavy.

Degree (n.) A step, stair, or staircase.

Degree (n.) One of a series of progressive steps upward or downward, in quality, rank, acquirement, and the like; a stage in progression; grade; gradation; as, degrees of vice and virtue; to advance by slow degrees; degree of comparison.

Degree (n.) The point or step of progression to which a person has arrived; rank or station in life; position.

Degree (n.) Measure of advancement; quality; extent; as, tastes differ in kind as well as in degree.

Degree (n.) Grade or rank to which scholars are admitted by a college or university, in recognition of their attainments; as, the degree of bachelor of arts, master, doctor, etc.

Degree (n.) A certain distance or remove in the line of descent, determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain of relationship; as, a relation in the third or fourth degree.

Degree (n.) Three figures taken together in numeration; thus, 140 is one degree, 222,140 two degrees.

Degree (n.) State as indicated by sum of exponents; more particularly, the degree of a term is indicated by the sum of the exponents of its literal factors; thus, a2b3c is a term of the sixth degree. The degree of a power, or radical, is denoted by its index, that of an equation by the greatest sum of the exponents of the unknown quantities in any term; thus, ax4 + bx2 = c, and mx2y2 + nyx = p, are both equations of the fourth degree.

Degree (n.) A 360th part of the circumference of a circle, which part is taken as the principal unit of measure for arcs and angles. The degree is divided into 60 minutes and the minute into 60 seconds.

Degree (n.) A division, space, or interval, marked on a mathematical or other instrument, as on a thermometer.

Degree (n.) A line or space of the staff.

Degu (n.) A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii), of the family Octodontidae.

Degust (v. t.) To taste.

Degustation (n.) Tasting; the appreciation of sapid qualities by the taste organs.

Dehisce (v. i.) To gape; to open by dehiscence.

Dehiscence (n.) The act of gaping.

Dehiscence (n.) A gaping or bursting open along a definite line of attachment or suture, without tearing, as in the opening of pods, or the bursting of capsules at maturity so as to emit seeds, etc.; also, the bursting open of follicles, as in the ovaries of animals, for the expulsion of their contents.

Dehiscent (a.) Characterized by dehiscence; opening in some definite way, as the capsule of a plant.

Dehonestate (v. t.) To disparage.

Dehonestation (n.) A dishonoring; disgracing.

Dehorned (imp. & p. p.) of Dehorn

Dehorning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dehorn

Dehorn (v. t.) To deprive of horns; to prevent the growth of the horns of (cattle) by burning their ends soon after they start. See Dishorn.

Dehors (prep.) Out of; without; foreign to; out of the agreement, record, will, or other instrument.

Dehors (n.) All sorts of outworks in general, at a distance from the main works; any advanced works for protection or cover.

Dehorted (imp. & p. p.) of Dehort

Dehorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dehort

Dehort (v. t.) To urge to abstain or refrain; to dissuade.

Dehortation (n.) Dissuasion; advice against something.

Dehortative (a.) Dissuasive.

Dehortatory (a.) Fitted or designed to dehort or dissuade.

Dehorter (n.) A dissuader; an adviser to the contrary.

Dehumanize (v. t.) To divest of human qualities, such as pity, tenderness, etc.; as, dehumanizing influences.

Dehusk (v. t.) To remove the husk from.

Dehydrate (v. t.) To deprive of water; to render free from water; as, to dehydrate alcohol.

Dehydration (n.) The act or process of freeing from water; also, the condition of a body from which the water has been removed.

Dehydrogenate (v. t.) To deprive of, or free from, hydrogen.

Dehydrogenation (n.) The act or process of freeing from hydrogen; also, the condition resulting from the removal of hydrogen.

Deicide (n.) The act of killing a being of a divine nature; particularly, the putting to death of Jesus Christ.

Deicide (n.) One concerned in putting Christ to death.

Deictic (a.) Direct; proving directly; -- applied to reasoning, and opposed to elenchtic or refutative.

Deictically (adv.) In a manner to show or point out; directly; absolutely; definitely.

Deific (a.) Alt. of Deifical

Deifical (a.) Making divine; producing a likeness to God; god-making.

Deification (n.) The act of deifying; exaltation to divine honors; apotheosis; excessive praise.

Deified (a.) Honored or worshiped as a deity; treated with supreme regard; godlike.

Deifier (n.) One who deifies.

Deiform (a.) Godlike, or of a godlike form.

Deiform (a.) Conformable to the will of God.

Deiformity (n.) Likeness to deity.

Deified (imp. & p. p.) of Deify

Deifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deify

Deify (v. t.) To make a god of; to exalt to the rank of a deity; to enroll among the deities; to apotheosize; as, Julius Caesar was deified.

Deify (v. t.) To praise or revere as a deity; to treat as an object of supreme regard; as, to deify money.

Deify (v. t.) To render godlike.

Deigned (imp. & p. p.) of Deign

Deigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deign

Deign (v. t.) To esteem worthy; to consider worth notice; -- opposed to disdain.

Deign (v. t.) To condescend to give or bestow; to stoop to furnish; to vouchsafe; to allow; to grant.

Deign (v. i.) To think worthy; to vouchsafe; to condescend; - - followed by an infinitive.

Deignous (a.) Haughty; disdainful.

Deil (n.) Devil; -- spelt also deel.

Deinoceras (n.) See Dinoceras.

Deinornis (n.) See Dinornis.

Deinosaur (n.) See Dinosaur.

Deinotherium (n.) See Dinotherium.

Deintegrate (v. t.) To disintegrate.

Deinteous (a.) Alt. of Deintevous

Deintevous (a.) Rare; excellent; costly.

Deiparous (a.) Bearing or bringing forth a god; -- said of the Virgin Mary.

Deipnosophist (n.) One of an ancient sect of philosophers, who cultivated learned conversation at meals.

Deis (n.) See Dais.

Deism (n.) The doctrine or creed of a deist; the belief or system of those who acknowledge the existence of one God, but deny revelation.

Deist (n.) One who believes in the existence of a God, but denies revealed religion; a freethinker.

Deistic (a.) Alt. of Deistical

Deistical (a.) Pertaining to, savoring of, or consisting in, deism; as, a deistic writer; a deistical book.

Deistically (adv.) After the manner of deists.

Deisticalness (n.) State of being deistical.

Deitate (a.) Deified.

Deities (pl. ) of Deity

Deity (n.) The collection of attributes which make up the nature of a god; divinity; godhead; as, the deity of the Supreme Being is seen in his works.

Deity (n.) A god or goddess; a heathen god.

Dejected (imp. & p. p.) of Deject

Dejecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deject

Deject (v. t.) To cast down.

Deject (v. t.) To cast down the spirits of; to dispirit; to discourage; to dishearten.

Deject (a.) Dejected.

Dejecta (n. pl.) Excrements; as, the dejecta of the sick.

Dejected (a.) Cast down; afflicted; low-spirited; sad; as, a dejected look or countenance.

Dejecter (n.) One who casts down, or dejects.

Dejection (n.) A casting down; depression.

Dejection (n.) The act of humbling or abasing one's self.

Dejection (n.) Lowness of spirits occasioned by grief or misfortune; mental depression; melancholy.

Dejection (n.) A low condition; weakness; inability.

Dejection (n.) The discharge of excrement.

Dejection (n.) Faeces; excrement.

Dejectly (adv.) Dejectedly.

Dejectory (a.) Having power, or tending, to cast down.

Dejectory (a.) Promoting evacuations by stool.

Dejecture (n.) That which is voided; excrements.

Dejerate (v. i.) To swear solemnly; to take an oath.

Dejeration (n.) The act of swearing solemnly.

Dejeune (n.) A dejeuner.

Dejeuner (n.) A breakfast; sometimes, also, a lunch or collation.

De jure () By right; of right; by law; -- often opposed to de facto.

Deka- () A prefix signifying ten. See Deca-.

Dekagram (n.) Same as Decagram.

Dekaliter (n.) Same as Decaliter.

Dekameter (n.) Same as Decameter.

Dekastere (n.) Same as Decastere.

Dekle (n.) See Deckle.

Del (n.) Share; portion; part.

Delaceration (n.) A tearing in pieces.

Delacrymation (n.) An involuntary discharge of watery humors from the eyes; wateriness of the eyes.

Delactation (n.) The act of weaning.

Delaine (n.) A kind of fabric for women's dresses.

Delamination (n.) Formation and separation of laminae or layers; one of the methods by which the various blastodermic layers of the ovum are differentiated.

Delapsation (n.) See Delapsion.

Delapsed (imp. & p. p.) of Delapse

Delapsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delapse

Delapse (v. i.) To pass down by inheritance; to lapse.

Delapsion (n.) A falling down, or out of place; prolapsion.

Delassation (n.) Fatigue.

Delated (imp. & p. p.) of Delate

Delating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delate

Delate (v.) To carry; to convey.

Delate (v.) To carry abroad; to spread; to make public.

Delate (v.) To carry or bring against, as a charge; to inform against; to accuse; to denounce.

Delate (v.) To carry on; to conduct.

Delate (v. i.) To dilate.

Delation (n.) Conveyance.

Delation (n.) Accusation by an informer.

Delator (n.) An accuser; an informer.

Delaware (n.) An American grape, with compact bunches of small, amber-colored berries, sweet and of a good flavor.

Delawares (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the valley of the Delaware River, but now mostly located in the Indian Territory.

Delays (pl. ) of Delay

Delay (v.) A putting off or deferring; procrastination; lingering inactivity; stop; detention; hindrance.

Delayed (imp. & p. p.) of Delay

Delaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delay

Delay (n.) To put off; to defer; to procrastinate; to prolong the time of or before.

Delay (n.) To retard; to stop, detain, or hinder, for a time; to retard the motion, or time of arrival, of; as, the mail is delayed by a heavy fall of snow.

Delay (n.) To allay; to temper.

Delay (v. i.) To move slowly; to stop for a time; to linger; to tarry.

Delayer (n.) One who delays; one who lingers.

Delayingly (adv.) By delays.

Delayment (n.) Hindrance.

Del credere () An agreement by which an agent or factor, in consideration of an additional premium or commission (called a del credere commission), engages, when he sells goods on credit, to insure, warrant, or guarantee to his principal the solvency of the purchaser, the engagement of the factor being to pay the debt himself if it is not punctually discharged by the buyer when it becomes due.

Dele (imperative sing.) Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which has been put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus: /.

Deled (imp. & p. p.) of Dele

Deleing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dele

Dele (v. t.) To erase; to cancel; to delete; to mark for omission.

Dele (v. t.) To deal; to divide; to distribute.

Deleble (a.) Capable of being blotted out or erased.

Delectable (a.) Highly pleasing; delightful.

Delectate (v. t.) To delight; to charm.

Delectation (n.) Great pleasure; delight.

Delectus (n.) A name given to an elementary book for learners of Latin or Greek.

Delegacy (a.) The act of delegating, or state of being delegated; deputed power.

Delegacy (a.) A body of delegates or commissioners; a delegation.

Delegate (n.) Any one sent and empowered to act for another; one deputed to represent; a chosen deputy; a representative; a commissioner; a vicar.

Delegate (n.) One elected by the people of a territory to represent them in Congress, where he has the right of debating, but not of voting.

Delegate (n.) One sent by any constituency to act as its representative in a convention; as, a delegate to a convention for nominating officers, or for forming or altering a constitution.

Delegate (a.) Sent to act for or represent another; deputed; as, a delegate judge.

Delegated (imp. & p. p.) of Delegate

Delegating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delegate

Delegate (v. t.) To send as one's representative; to empower as an ambassador; to send with power to transact business; to commission; to depute; to authorize.

Delegate (v. t.) To intrust to the care or management of another; to transfer; to assign; to commit.

Delegation (n.) The act of delegating, or investing with authority to act for another; the appointment of a delegate or delegates.

Delegation (n.) One or more persons appointed or chosen, and commissioned to represent others, as in a convention, in Congress, etc.; the collective body of delegates; as, the delegation from Massachusetts; a deputation.

Delegation (n.) A kind of novation by which a debtor, to be liberated from his creditor, gives him a third person, who becomes obliged in his stead to the creditor, or to the person appointed by him.

Delegatory (a.) Holding a delegated position.

Delenda (n. pl.) Things to be erased or blotted out.

Delenifical (a.) Assuaging pain.

Deleted (imp. & p. p.) of Delete

Deleting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delete

Delete (v. t.) To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit.

Deleterious (a.) Hurtful; noxious; destructive; pernicious; as, a deleterious plant or quality; a deleterious example.

Deletery (a.) Destructive; poisonous.

Deletery (n.) That which destroys.

Deletion (n.) Act of deleting, blotting out, or erasing; destruction.

Deletitious (a.) Of such a nature that anything may be erased from it; -- said of paper.

Deletive (a.) Adapted to destroy or obliterate.

Deletory (n.) That which blots out.

Delf (n.) A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch.

Delf (n.) Same as Delftware.

Delft (n.) Same as Delftware.

Delftware (n.) Pottery made at the city of Delft in Holland; hence:

Delftware (n.) Earthenware made in imitation of the above; any glazed earthenware made for table use, and the like.

Delibate (v. t.) To taste; to take a sip of; to dabble in.

Delibation (n.) Act of tasting; a slight trial.

Deliber (v. t. & i.) To deliberate.

Deliberate (a.) Weighing facts and arguments with a view to a choice or decision; carefully considering the probable consequences of a step; circumspect; slow in determining; -- applied to persons; as, a deliberate judge or counselor.

Deliberate (a.) Formed with deliberation; well-advised; carefully considered; not sudden or rash; as, a deliberate opinion; a deliberate measure or result.

Deliberate (a.) Not hasty or sudden; slow.

Deliberated (imp. & p. p.) of Deliberate

Deliberating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deliberate

Deliberate (v. t.) To weigh in the mind; to consider the reasons for and against; to consider maturely; to reflect upon; to ponder; as, to deliberate a question.

Deliberate (v. i.) To take counsel with one's self; to weigh the arguments for and against a proposed course of action; to reflect; to consider; to hesitate in deciding; -- sometimes with on, upon, about, concerning.

Deliberately (adv.) With careful consideration, or deliberation; circumspectly; warily; not hastily or rashly; slowly; as, a purpose deliberately formed.

Deliberateness (n.) The quality of being deliberate; calm consideration; circumspection.

Deliberation (n.) The act of deliberating, or of weighing and examining the reasons for and against a choice or measure; careful consideration; mature reflection.

Deliberation (n.) Careful discussion and examination of the reasons for and against a measure; as, the deliberations of a legislative body or council.

Deliberative (a.) Pertaining to deliberation; proceeding or acting by deliberation, or by discussion and examination; deliberating; as, a deliberative body.

Deliberative (n.) A discourse in which a question is discussed, or weighed and examined.

Deliberative (n.) A kind of rhetoric employed in proving a thing and convincing others of its truth, in order to persuade them to adopt it.

Deliberatively (adv.) In a deliberative manner; circumspectly; considerately.

Deliberator (n.) One who deliberates.

Delibrated (imp. & p. p.) of Delibrate

Delibrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delibrate

Delibrate (v. t.) To strip off the bark; to peel.

Delibration (n.) The act of stripping off the bark.

Delicacies (pl. ) of Delicacy

Delicacy (a.) The state or condition of being delicate; agreeableness to the senses; delightfulness; as, delicacy of flavor, of odor, and the like.

Delicacy (a.) Nicety or fineness of form, texture, or constitution; softness; elegance; smoothness; tenderness; and hence, frailty or weakness; as, the delicacy of a fiber or a thread; delicacy of a hand or of the human form; delicacy of the skin; delicacy of frame.

Delicacy (a.) Nice propriety of manners or conduct; susceptibility or tenderness of feeling; refinement; fastidiousness; and hence, in an exaggerated sense, effeminacy; as, great delicacy of behavior; delicacy in doing a kindness; delicacy of character that unfits for earnest action.

Delicacy (a.) Addiction to pleasure; luxury; daintiness; indulgence; luxurious or voluptuous treatment.

Delicacy (a.) Nice and refined perception and discrimination; critical niceness; fastidious accuracy.

Delicacy (a.) The state of being affected by slight causes; sensitiveness; as, the delicacy of a chemist's balance.

Delicacy (a.) That which is alluring, delicate, or refined; a luxury or pleasure; something pleasant to the senses, especially to the sense of taste; a dainty; as, delicacies of the table.

Delicacy (a.) Pleasure; gratification; delight.

Delicate (a.) Addicted to pleasure; luxurious; voluptuous; alluring.

Delicate (a.) Pleasing to the senses; refinedly agreeable; hence, adapted to please a nice or cultivated taste; nice; fine; elegant; as, a delicate dish; delicate flavor.

Delicate (a.) Slight and shapely; lovely; graceful; as, a delicate creature.

Delicate (a.) Fine or slender; minute; not coarse; -- said of a thread, or the like; as, delicate cotton.

Delicate (a.) Slight or smooth; light and yielding; -- said of texture; as, delicate lace or silk.

Delicate (a.) Soft and fair; -- said of the skin or a surface; as, a delicate cheek; a delicate complexion.

Delicate (a.) Light, or softly tinted; -- said of a color; as, a delicate blue.

Delicate (a.) Refined; gentle; scrupulous not to trespass or offend; considerate; -- said of manners, conduct, or feelings; as, delicate behavior; delicate attentions; delicate thoughtfulness.

Delicate (a.) Tender; not able to endure hardship; feeble; frail; effeminate; -- said of constitution, health, etc.; as, a delicate child; delicate health.

Delicate (a.) Requiring careful handling; not to be rudely or hastily dealt with; nice; critical; as, a delicate subject or question.

Delicate (a.) Of exacting tastes and habits; dainty; fastidious.

Delicate (a.) Nicely discriminating or perceptive; refinedly critical; sensitive; exquisite; as, a delicate taste; a delicate ear for music.

Delicate (a.) Affected by slight causes; showing slight changes; as, a delicate thermometer.

Delicate (n.) A choice dainty; a delicacy.

Delicate (n.) A delicate, luxurious, or effeminate person.

Delicately (adv.) In a delicate manner.

Delicateness (n.) The quality of being delicate.

Delices (n. pl.) Delicacies; delights.

Deliciate (v. t.) To delight one's self; to indulge in feasting; to revel.

Delicious (a.) Affording exquisite pleasure; delightful; most sweet or grateful to the senses, especially to the taste; charming.

Delicious (a.) Addicted to pleasure; seeking enjoyment; luxurious; effeminate.

Deliciously (adv.) Delightfully; as, to feed deliciously; to be deliciously entertained.

Deliciousness (n.) The quality of being delicious; as, the deliciousness of a repast.

Deliciousness (n.) Luxury.

Delict (n.) An offense or transgression against law; (Scots Law) an offense of a lesser degree; a misdemeanor.

Deligate (v. t.) To bind up; to bandage.

Deligation (n.) A binding up; a bandaging.

Delight (v. t.) A high degree of gratification of mind; a high- wrought state of pleasurable feeling; lively pleasure; extreme satisfaction; joy.

Delight (v. t.) That which gives great pleasure or delight.

Delight (v. t.) Licentious pleasure; lust.

Delighted (imp. & p. p.) of Delight

Delighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delight

Delight (v. t.) To give delight to; to affect with great pleasure; to please highly; as, a beautiful landscape delights the eye; harmony delights the ear.

Delight (v. i.) To have or take great delight or pleasure; to be greatly pleased or rejoiced; -- followed by an infinitive, or by in.

Delightable (a.) Capable of delighting; delightful.

Delighted (a.) Endowed with delight.

Delightedly (adv.) With delight; gladly.

Delighter (n.) One who gives or takes delight.

Delightful (a.) Highly pleasing; affording great pleasure and satisfaction.

Delighting (a.) Giving delight; gladdening.

Delightless (a.) Void of delight.

Delightous (a.) Delightful.

Delightsome (a.) Very pleasing; delightful.

Delilah (n.) The mistress of Samson, who betrayed him (Judges xvi.); hence, a harlot; a temptress.

Delimit (v. t.) To fix the limits of; to demarcate; to bound.

Delimitation (n.) The act or process of fixing limits or boundaries; limitation.

Deline (v. t.) To delineate.

Deline (v. t.) To mark out.

Delineable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, delineated.

Delineament (/.) Delineation; sketch.

Delineate (a.) Delineated; portrayed.

Delineated (imp. & p. p.) of Delineate

Delineating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delineate

Delineate (v. t.) To indicate by lines drawn in the form or figure of; to represent by sketch, design, or diagram; to sketch out; to portray; to picture; in drawing and engraving, to represent in lines, as with the pen, pencil, or graver; hence, to represent with accuracy and minuteness. See Delineation.

Delineate (v. t.) To portray to the mind or understanding by words; to set forth; to describe.

Delineation (n.) The act of representing, portraying, or describing, as by lines, diagrams, sketches, etc.; drawing an outline; as, the delineation of a scene or face; in drawing and engraving, representation by means of lines, as distinguished from representation by means of tints and shades; accurate and minute representation, as distinguished from art that is careless of details, or subordinates them excessively.

Delineation (n.) A delineated picture; representation; sketch; description in words.

Delineator (n.) One who, or that which, delineates; a sketcher.

Delineator (n.) A perambulator which records distances and delineates a profile, as of a road.

Delineatory (a.) That delineates; descriptive; drawing the outline; delineating.

Delineature (n.) Delineation.

Delinition (n.) A smearing.

Delinquencies (pl. ) of Delinquency

Delinquency (n.) Failure or omission of duty; a fault; a misdeed; an offense; a misdemeanor; a crime.

Delinquent (n.) Failing in duty; offending by neglect of duty.

Delinquent (n.) One who fails or neglects to perform his duty; an offender or transgressor; one who commits a fault or a crime; a culprit.

Delinquently (adv.) So as to fail in duty.

Deliquate (v. i.) To melt or be dissolved; to deliquesce.

Deliquate (v. t.) To cause to melt away; to dissolve; to consume; to waste.

Deliquation (n.) A melting.

Deliquesced (imp. & p. p.) of Deliquesce

Deliquescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deliquesce

Deliquesce (v. i.) To dissolve gradually and become liquid by attracting and absorbing moisture from the air, as certain salts, acids, and alkalies.

Deliquescence (n.) The act of deliquescing or liquefying; process by which anything deliquesces; tendency to melt.

Deliquescent (a.) Dissolving; liquefying by contact with the air; capable of attracting moisture from the atmosphere and becoming liquid; as, deliquescent salts.

Deliquescent (a.) Branching so that the stem is lost in branches, as in most deciduous trees.

Deliquiate (v. i.) To melt and become liquid by absorbing water from the air; to deliquesce.

Deliquiation (n.) The act of deliquiating.

Deliquium (n.) A melting or dissolution in the air, or in a moist place; a liquid condition; as, a salt falls into a deliquium.

Deliquium (n.) A sinking away; a swooning.

Deliquium (n.) A melting or maudlin mood.

Deliracy (n.) Delirium.

Delirament (n.) A wandering of the mind; a crazy fancy.

Delirancy (n.) Delirium.

Delirant (a.) Delirious.

Delirate (v. t. & i.) To madden; to rave.

Deliration (n.) Aberration of mind; delirium.

Deliriant (n.) A poison which occasions a persistent delirium, or mental aberration (as belladonna).

Delirifacient (a.) Producing, or tending to produce, delirium.

Delirifacient (n.) Any substance which tends to cause delirium.

Delirious (a.) Having a delirium; wandering in mind; light-headed; insane; raving; wild; as, a delirious patient; delirious fancies.

Delirium (n.) A state in which the thoughts, expressions, and actions are wild, irregular, and incoherent; mental aberration; a roving or wandering of the mind, -- usually dependent on a fever or some other disease, and so distinguished from mania, or madness.

Delirium (n.) Strong excitement; wild enthusiasm; madness.

Delit (n.) Delight.

Delitable (a.) Delightful; delectable.

Delitescence (n.) Concealment; seclusion; retirement.

Delitescence (n.) The sudden disappearance of inflammation.

Delitescency (n.) Concealment; seclusion.

Delitescent (a.) Lying hid; concealed.

Delitigate (v. i.) To chide; to rail heartily.

Delitigation (n.) Chiding; brawl.

Delivered (imp. & p. p.) of Deliver

Delivering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deliver

Deliver (v. t.) To set free from restraint; to set at liberty; to release; to liberate, as from control; to give up; to free; to save; to rescue from evil actual or feared; -- often with from or out of; as, to deliver one from captivity, or from fear of death.

Deliver (v. t.) To give or transfer; to yield possession or control of; to part with (to); to make over; to commit; to surrender; to resign; -- often with up or over, to or into.

Deliver (v. t.) To make over to the knowledge of another; to communicate; to utter; to speak; to impart.

Deliver (v. t.) To give forth in action or exercise; to discharge; as, to deliver a blow; to deliver a broadside, or a ball.

Deliver (v. t.) To free from, or disburden of, young; to relieve of a child in childbirth; to bring forth; -- often with of.

Deliver (v. t.) To discover; to show.

Deliver (v. t.) To deliberate.

Deliver (v. t.) To admit; to allow to pass.

Deliver (v. t.) Free; nimble; sprightly; active.

Deliverable (a.) Capable of being, or about to be, delivered; necessary to be delivered.

Deliverance (n.) The act of delivering or freeing from restraint, captivity, peril, and the like; rescue; as, the deliverance of a captive.

Deliverance (n.) Act of bringing forth children.

Deliverance (n.) Act of speaking; utterance.

Deliverance (n.) The state of being delivered, or freed from restraint.

Deliverance (n.) Anything delivered or communicated; esp., an opinion or decision expressed publicly.

Deliverance (n.) Any fact or truth which is decisively attested or intuitively known as a psychological or philosophical datum; as, the deliverance of consciousness.

Deliverer (n.) One who delivers or rescues; a preserver.

Deliverer (n.) One who relates or communicates.

Deliveress (n.) A female deliverer.

Deliverly (adv.) Actively; quickly; nimbly.

Deliverness (n.) Nimbleness; agility.

Deliveries (pl. ) of Delivery

Delivery (n.) The act of delivering from restraint; rescue; release; liberation; as, the delivery of a captive from his dungeon.

Delivery (n.) The act of delivering up or over; surrender; transfer of the body or substance of a thing; distribution; as, the delivery of a fort, of hostages, of a criminal, of goods, of letters.

Delivery (n.) The act or style of utterance; manner of speaking; as, a good delivery; a clear delivery.

Delivery (n.) The act of giving birth; parturition; the expulsion or extraction of a fetus and its membranes.

Delivery (n.) The act of exerting one's strength or limbs.

Delivery (n.) The act or manner of delivering a ball; as, the pitcher has a swift delivery.

Dell (n.) A small, retired valley; a ravine.

Dell (n.) A young woman; a wench.

Della Crusca () A shortened form of Accademia della Crusca, an academy in Florence, Italy, founded in the 16th century, especially for conserving the purity of the Italian language.

Dellacruscan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Accademia della Crusca in Florence.

Deloo (n.) The duykerbok.

Deloul (n.) A special breed of the dromedary used for rapid traveling; the swift camel; -- called also herire, and maharik.

Delph (n.) Delftware.

Delph (n.) The drain on the land side of a sea embankment.

Delphian (a.) Delphic.

Delphic (a.) Of or relating to Delphi, or to the famous oracle of that place.

Delphic (a.) Ambiguous; mysterious.

Delphin (a.) Alt. of Delphine

Delphine (a.) Pertaining to the dauphin of France; as, the Delphin classics, an edition of the Latin classics, prepared in the reign of Louis XIV., for the use of the dauphin (in usum Delphini).

Delphin (n.) A fatty substance contained in the oil of the dolphin and the porpoise; -- called also phocenin.

Delphine (a.) Pertaining to the dolphin, a genus of fishes.

Delphinic (n.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the dolphin; phocenic.

Delphinic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the larkspur; specifically, relating to the stavesacre (Delphinium staphisagria).

Delphinine (n.) A poisonous alkaloid extracted from the stavesacre (Delphinium staphisagria), as a colorless amorphous powder.

Delphinoid (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the dolphin.

Delphinoidea (n. pl.) The division of Cetacea which comprises the dolphins, porpoises, and related forms.

Delphinus (n.) A genus of Cetacea, including the dolphin. See Dolphin, 1.

Delphinus (n.) The Dolphin, a constellation near the equator and east of Aquila.

Deltas (pl. ) of Delta

Delta (n.) A tract of land shaped like the letter delta (/), especially when the land is alluvial and inclosed between two or more mouths of a river; as, the delta of the Ganges, of the Nile, or of the Mississippi.

Deltafication (n.) The formation of a delta or of deltas.

Deltaic (a.) Relating to, or like, a delta.

Delthyris (n.) A name formerly given to certain Silurian brachiopod shells of the genus Spirifer.

Deltic (a.) Deltaic.

Deltidium (n.) The triangular space under the beak of many brachiopod shells.

Deltohedron (n.) A solid bounded by twelve quadrilateral faces. It is a hemihedral form of the isometric system, allied to the tetrahedron.

Deltoid (a.) Shaped like the Greek / (delta); delta-shaped; triangular.

Deludable (a.) Capable of being deluded; liable to be imposed on; gullible.

Deluded (imp. & p. p.) of Delude

Deluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delude

Delude (v. t.) To lead from truth or into error; to mislead the mind or judgment of; to beguile; to impose on; to dupe; to make a fool of.

Delude (v. t.) To frustrate or disappoint.

Deluder (n.) One who deludes; a deceiver; an impostor.

Deluge (n.) A washing away; an overflowing of the land by water; an inundation; a flood; specifically, The Deluge, the great flood in the days of Noah (Gen. vii.).

Deluge (n.) Fig.: Anything which overwhelms, or causes great destruction.

Deluged (imp. & p. p.) of Deluge

Deluging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deluge

Deluge (v. t.) To overflow with water; to inundate; to overwhelm.

Deluge (v. t.) To overwhelm, as with a deluge; to cover; to overspread; to overpower; to submerge; to destroy; as, the northern nations deluged the Roman empire with their armies; the land is deluged with woe.

Delundung (n.) An East Indian carnivorous mammal (Prionodon gracilis), resembling the civets, but without scent pouches. It is handsomely spotted.

Delusion (n.) The act of deluding; deception; a misleading of the mind.

Delusion (n.) The state of being deluded or misled.

Delusion (n.) That which is falsely or delusively believed or propagated; false belief; error in belief.

Delusional (a.) Of or pertaining to delusions; as, delusional monomania.

Delusive (a.) Apt or fitted to delude; tending to mislead the mind; deceptive; beguiling; delusory; as, delusive arts; a delusive dream.

Delusory (a.) Delusive; fallacious.

Delved (imp. & p. p.) of Delve

Delving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delve

Delve (v. t.) To dig; to open (the ground) as with a spade.

Delve (v. t.) To dig into; to penetrate; to trace out; to fathom.

Delve (v. i.) To dig or labor with a spade, or as with a spade; to labor as a drudge.

Delve (v. t.) A place dug; a pit; a ditch; a den; a cave.

Delver (n.) One who digs, as with a spade.

Demagnetize (v. t.) To deprive of magnetic properties. See Magnetize.

Demagnetize (v. t.) To free from mesmeric influence; to demesmerize.

Demagog (n.) Demagogue.

Demagogic (a.) Alt. of Demagogical

Demagogical (a.) Relating to, or like, a demagogue; factious.

Demagogism (n.) The practices of a demagogue.

Demagogue (n.) A leader of the rabble; one who attempts to control the multitude by specious or deceitful arts; an unprincipled and factious mob orator or political leader.

Demagogy (n.) Demagogism.

Demain (n.) Rule; management.

Demain (n.) See Demesne.

Demanded (imp. & p. p.) of Demand

Demanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demand

Demand (v. t.) To ask or call for with authority; to claim or seek from, as by authority or right; to claim, as something due; to call for urgently or peremptorily; as, to demand a debt; to demand obedience.

Demand (v. t.) To inquire authoritatively or earnestly; to ask, esp. in a peremptory manner; to question.

Demand (v. t.) To require as necessary or useful; to be in urgent need of; hence, to call for; as, the case demands care.

Demand (v. t.) To call into court; to summon.

Demand (v. i.) To make a demand; to inquire.

Demand (v. t.) The act of demanding; an asking with authority; a peremptory urging of a claim; a claiming or challenging as due; requisition; as, the demand of a creditor; a note payable on demand.

Demand (v. t.) Earnest inquiry; question; query.

Demand (v. t.) A diligent seeking or search; manifested want; desire to possess; request; as, a demand for certain goods; a person's company is in great demand.

Demand (v. t.) That which one demands or has a right to demand; thing claimed as due; claim; as, demands on an estate.

Demand (v. t.) The asking or seeking for what is due or claimed as due.

Demand (v. t.) The right or title in virtue of which anything may be claimed; as, to hold a demand against a person.

Demand (v. t.) A thing or amount claimed to be due.

Demandable (a.) That may be demanded or claimed.

Demandant (n.) One who demands; the plaintiff in a real action; any plaintiff.

Demander (n.) One who demands.

Demandress (n.) A woman who demands.

Demantoid (n.) A yellow-green, transparent variety of garnet found in the Urals. It is valued as a gem because of its brilliancy of luster, whence the name.

Demarcate (v. t.) To mark by bounds; to set the limits of; to separate; to discriminate.

Demarcation (n.) The act of marking, or of ascertaining and setting a limit; separation; distinction.

Demarch (n.) March; walk; gait.

Demarch (n.) A chief or ruler of a deme or district in Greece.

Demarkation (n.) Same as Demarcation.

Dematerialize (v. t.) To deprive of material or physical qualities or characteristics.

Deme (n.) A territorial subdivision of Attica (also of modern Greece), corresponding to a township.

Deme (n.) An undifferentiated aggregate of cells or plastids.

Demeaned (imp. & p. p.) of Demean

Demeaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demean

Demean (v. t.) To manage; to conduct; to treat.

Demean (v. t.) To conduct; to behave; to comport; -- followed by the reflexive pronoun.

Demean (v. t.) To debase; to lower; to degrade; -- followed by the reflexive pronoun.

Demean (v. t.) Management; treatment.

Demean (v. t.) Behavior; conduct; bearing; demeanor.

Demean (n.) Demesne.

Demean (n.) Resources; means.

Demeanance (n.) Demeanor.

Demeanor (v. t.) Management; treatment; conduct.

Demeanor (v. t.) Behavior; deportment; carriage; bearing; mien.

Demeanure (n.) Behavior.

Demency (n.) Dementia; loss of mental powers. See Insanity.

Dement (v. t.) To deprive of reason; to make mad.

Dement (a.) Demented; dementate.

Dementate (v. t.) Deprived of reason.

Dementate (v. t.) To deprive of reason; to dement.

Dementation (n.) The act of depriving of reason; madness.

Demented (a.) Insane; mad; of unsound mind.

Dementia (n.) Insanity; madness; esp. that form which consists in weakness or total loss of thought and reason; mental imbecility; idiocy.

Demephitized (imp. & p. p.) of Demephitize

Demephitizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demephitize

Demephitize (v. t.) To purify from mephitic or foul air.

Demerge (v. t.) To plunge down into; to sink; to immerse.

Demerit (n.) That which one merits or deserves, either of good or ill; desert.

Demerit (n.) That which deserves blame; ill desert; a fault; a vice; misconduct; -- the opposite of merit.

Demerit (n.) The state of one who deserves ill.

Demerit (n.) To deserve; -- said in reference to both praise and blame.

Demerit (n.) To depreciate or cry down.

Demerit (v. i.) To deserve praise or blame.

Demerse (v. t.) To immerse.

Demersed (a.) Situated or growing under water, as leaves; submersed.

Demersion (n.) The act of plunging into a fluid; a drowning.

Demersion (n.) The state of being overwhelmed in water, or as if in water.

Demesmerize (v. t.) To relieve from mesmeric influence. See Mesmerize.

Demesne (n.) A lord's chief manor place, with that part of the lands belonging thereto which has not been granted out in tenancy; a house, and the land adjoining, kept for the proprietor's own use.

Demesnial (a.) Of or pertaining to a demesne; of the nature of a demesne.

Demi- () A prefix, signifying half.

Demi (n.) See Demy, n.

Demibastion (n.) A half bastion, or that part of a bastion consisting of one face and one flank.

Demibrigade (n.) A half brigade.

Demicadence (n.) An imperfect or half cadence, falling on the dominant instead of on the key note.

Demicannon (n.) A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from thirty to thirty-six pounds.

Demicircle (n.) An instrument for measuring angles, in surveying, etc. It resembles a protractor, but has an alidade, sights, and a compass.

Demiculverin (n.) A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from nine to thirteen pounds.

Demideify (v. t.) To deify in part.

Demidevil (n.) A half devil.

Demigod (n.) A half god, or an inferior deity; a fabulous hero, the offspring of a deity and a mortal.

Demigoddess (n.) A female demigod.

Demigorge (n.) Half the gorge, or entrance into a bastion, taken from the angle of the flank to the center of the bastion.

Demigrate (v. i.) To emigrate.

Demigration (n.) Emigration.

Demigroat (n.) A half groat.

Demi-island (n.) Peninsula.

Demijohn (n.) A glass vessel or bottle with a large body and small neck, inclosed in wickerwork.

Demilance (n.) A light lance; a short spear; a half pike; also, a demilancer.

Demilancer (n.) A soldier of light cavalry of the 16th century, who carried a demilance.

Demilune (n.) A work constructed beyond the main ditch of a fortress, and in front of the curtain between two bastions, intended to defend the curtain; a ravelin. See Ravelin.

Demilune (n.) A crescentic mass of granular protoplasm present in the salivary glands.

Demiman (n.) A half man.

Demimonde (n.) Persons of doubtful reputation; esp., women who are kept as mistresses, though not public prostitutes; demireps.

Deminatured (a.) Having half the nature of another.

Demiquaver (n.) A note of half the length of the quaver; a semiquaver.

Demirelief (n.) Alt. of Demirelievo

Demirelievo (n.) Half relief. See Demi-rilievo.

Demirep (n.) A woman of doubtful reputation or suspected character; an adventuress.

Demi-rilievo (n.) Half relief; sculpture in relief of which the figures project from the background by one half their full roundness.

Demi-rilievo (n.) A work of sculpture of the above character. See Alto-rilievo.

Demisability (n.) The state of being demisable.

Demisable (a.) Capable of being leased; as, a demisable estate.

Demise (n.) Transmission by formal act or conveyance to an heir or successor; transference; especially, the transfer or transmission of the crown or royal authority to a successor.

Demise (n.) The decease of a royal or princely person; hence, also, the death of any illustrious person.

Demise (n.) The conveyance or transfer of an estate, either in fee for life or for years, most commonly the latter.

Demised (imp. & p. p.) of Demise

Demising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demise

Demise (v. t.) To transfer or transmit by succession or inheritance; to grant or bestow by will; to bequeath.

Demise (v. t.) To convey; to give.

Demise (v. t.) To convey, as an estate, by lease; to lease.

Demisemiquaver (n.) A short note, equal in time to the half of a semiquaver, or the thirty-second part of a whole note.

Demiss (a.) Cast down; humble; submissive.

Demission (n.) The act of demitting, or the state of being demitted; a letting down; a lowering; dejection.

Demission (n.) Resignation of an office.

Demissionary (a.) Pertaining to transfer or conveyance; as, a demissionary deed.

Demissionary (a.) Tending to lower, depress, or degrade.

Demissive (a.) Downcast; submissive; humble.

Demissly (adv.) In a humble manner.

Demisuit (n.) A suit of light armor covering less than the whole body, as having no protection for the legs below the thighs, no vizor to the helmet, and the like.

Demitted (imp. & p. p.) of Demit

Demitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demit

Demit (v. t.) To let fall; to depress.

Demit (v. t.) To yield or submit; to humble; to lower; as, to demit one's self to humble duties.

Demit (v. t.) To lay down, as an office; to resign.

Demitint (n.) That part of a painting, engraving, or the like, which is neither in full darkness nor full light.

Demitint (n.) The shade itself; neither the darkest nor the lightest in a composition. Also called half tint.

Demitone (n.) Semitone.

Demiurge (n.) The chief magistrate in some of the Greek states.

Demiurge (n.) God, as the Maker of the world.

Demiurge (n.) According to the Gnostics, an agent or one employed by the Supreme Being to create the material universe and man.

Demiurgic (a.) Pertaining to a demiurge; formative; creative.

Demivill (n.) A half vill, consisting of five freemen or frankpledges.

Demivolt (n.) A half vault; one of the seven artificial motions of a horse, in which he raises his fore legs in a particular manner.

Demiwolf (n.) A half wolf; a mongrel dog, between a dog and a wolf.

Demobilization (n.) The disorganization or disarming of troops which have previously been mobilized or called into active service; the change from a war footing to a peace footing.

Demobilize (v. t.) To disorganize, or disband and send home, as troops which have been mobilized.

Democracies (pl. ) of Democracy

Democracy (n.) Government by the people; a form of government in which the supreme power is retained and directly exercised by the people.

Democracy (n.) Government by popular representation; a form of government in which the supreme power is retained by the people, but is indirectly exercised through a system of representation and delegated authority periodically renewed; a constitutional representative government; a republic.

Democracy (n.) Collectively, the people, regarded as the source of government.

Democracy (n.) The principles and policy of the Democratic party, so called.

Democrat (n.) One who is an adherent or advocate of democracy, or government by the people.

Democrat (n.) A member of the Democratic party.

Democratic (a.) Pertaining to democracy; favoring democracy, or constructed upon the principle of government by the people.

Democratic (a.) Relating to a political party so called.

Democratic (a.) Befitting the common people; -- opposed to aristocratic.

Democratical (a.) Democratic.

Democratically (adv.) In a democratic manner.

Democratism (n.) The principles or spirit of a democracy.

Democratist (n.) A democrat.

Democratize (v. t.) To render democratic.

Democraty (n.) Democracy.

Demogorgon (n.) A mysterious, terrible, and evil divinity, regarded by some as the author of creation, by others as a great magician who was supposed to command the spirits of the lower world. See Gorgon.

Demography (n.) The study of races, as to births, marriages, mortality, health, etc.

Demoiselle (n.) A young lady; a damsel; a lady's maid.

Demoiselle (n.) The Numidian crane (Anthropoides virgo); -- so called on account of the grace and symmetry of its form and movements.

Demoiselle (n.) A beautiful, small dragon fly of the genus Agrion.

Demolished (imp. & p. p.) of Demolish

Demolishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demolish

Demolish (v. t.) To throw or pull down; to raze; to destroy the fabric of; to pull to pieces; to ruin; as, to demolish an edifice, or a wall.

Demolisher (n.) One who, or that which, demolishes; as, a demolisher of towns.

Demolishment (n.) Demolition.

Demolition (n.) The act of overthrowing, pulling down, or destroying a pile or structure; destruction by violence; utter overthrow; -- opposed to construction; as, the demolition of a house, of military works, of a town, or of hopes.

Demolitionist (n.) A demolisher.

Demon (n.) A spirit, or immaterial being, holding a middle place between men and deities in pagan mythology.

Demon (n.) One's genius; a tutelary spirit or internal voice; as, the demon of Socrates.

Demon (n.) An evil spirit; a devil.

Demoness (n.) A female demon.

Demonetization (n.) The act of demonetizing, or the condition of being demonetized.

Demonetize (v. t.) To deprive of current value; to withdraw from use, as money.

Demoniac (a.) Alt. of Demoniacal

Demoniacal (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a demon or evil spirit; devilish; as, a demoniac being; demoniacal practices.

Demoniacal (a.) Influenced or produced by a demon or evil spirit; as, demoniac or demoniacal power.

Demoniac (n.) A human being possessed by a demon or evil spirit; one whose faculties are directly controlled by a demon.

Demoniac (n.) One of a sect of Anabaptists who maintain that the demons or devils will finally be saved.

Demoniacally (adv.) In a demoniacal manner.

Demoniacism (n.) The state of being demoniac, or the practices of demoniacs.

Demonial (a.) Of or pertaining to a demon.

Demonian (a.) Relating to, or having the nature of, a demon.

Demonianism (n.) The state of being possessed by a demon or by demons.

Demoniasm (n.) See Demonianism.

Demonic (a.) Of or pertaining to a demon or to demons; demoniac.

Demonism (n.) The belief in demons or false gods.

Demonist (n.) A believer in, or worshiper of, demons.

Demonized (imp. & p. p.) of Demonize

Demonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demonize

Demonize (v. t.) To convert into a demon; to infuse the principles or fury of a demon into.

Demonize (v. t.) To control or possess by a demon.

Demonocracy (n.) The power or government of demons.

Demonographer (n.) A demonologist.

Demonolatry (n.) The worship of demons.

Demonologer (n.) One versed in demonology.

Demonologic (a.) Alt. of Demonological

Demonological (a.) Of or pertaining to demonology.

Demonologist (n.) One who writes on, or is versed in, demonology.

Demonology (n.) A treatise on demons; a supposititious science which treats of demons and their manifestations.

Demonomagy (n.) Magic in which the aid of demons is invoked; black or infernal magic.

Demonomania (n.) A form of madness in which the patient conceives himself possessed of devils.

Demonomist (n.) One in subjection to a demon, or to demons.

Demonomy (n.) The dominion of demons.

Demonry (n.) Demoniacal influence or possession.

Demonship (n.) The state of a demon.

Demonstrability (n.) The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrableness.

Demonstrable (a.) Capable of being demonstrated; that can be proved beyond doubt or question.

Demonstrable (a.) Proved; apparent.

Demonstrableness (n.) The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrability.

Demonstrably (adv.) In a demonstrable manner; incontrovertibly; clearly.

Demonstrance (n.) Demonstration; proof.

Demonstrate (v. t.) To point out; to show; to exhibit; to make evident.

Demonstrate (v. t.) To show, or make evident, by reasoning or proof; to prove by deduction; to establish so as to exclude the possibility of doubt or denial.

Demonstrate (v. t.) To exhibit and explain (a dissection or other anatomical preparation).

Demonstrater (n.) See Demonstrator.

Demonstration (n.) The act of demonstrating; an exhibition; proof; especially, proof beyond the possibility of doubt; indubitable evidence, to the senses or reason.

Demonstration (n.) An expression, as of the feelings, by outward signs; a manifestation; a show.

Demonstration (n.) The exhibition and explanation of a dissection or other anatomical preparation.

Demonstration (n.) (Mil.) a decisive exhibition of force, or a movement indicating an attack.

Demonstration (n.) The act of proving by the syllogistic process, or the proof itself.

Demonstration (n.) A course of reasoning showing that a certain result is a necessary consequence of assumed premises; -- these premises being definitions, axioms, and previously established propositions.

Demonstrative (a.) Having the nature of demonstration; tending to demonstrate; making evident; exhibiting clearly or conclusively.

Demonstrative (a.) Expressing, or apt to express, much; displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her nature was demonstrative.

Demonstrative (a.) Consisting of eulogy or of invective.

Demonstrative (n.) A demonstrative pronoun; as, this and that are demonstratives.

Demonstratively (adv.) In a manner fitted to demonstrate; clearly; convincingly; forcibly.

Demonstrativeness (n.) The state or quality of being demonstrative.

Demonstrator (n.) One who demonstrates; one who proves anything with certainty, or establishes it by indubitable evidence.

Demonstrator (n.) A teacher of practical anatomy.

Demonstratory (a.) Tending to demonstrate; demonstrative.

Demorage (n.) Demurrage.

Demoralization (n.) The act of corrupting or subverting morals. Especially: The act of corrupting or subverting discipline, courage, hope, etc., or the state of being corrupted or subverted in discipline, courage, etc.; as, the demoralization of an army or navy.

Demoralized (imp. & p. p.) of Demoralize

Demoralizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demoralize

Demoralize (v. t.) To corrupt or undermine in morals; to destroy or lessen the effect of moral principles on; to render corrupt or untrustworthy in morals, in discipline, in courage, spirit, etc.; to weaken in spirit or efficiency.

Demosthenic (a.) Pertaining to, or in the style of, Demosthenes, the Grecian orator.

Demotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the people; popular; common.

Demount (v. i.) To dismount.

Dempne (v. t.) To damn; to condemn.

Dempster (n.) Alt. of Demster

Demster (n.) A deemster.

Demster (n.) An officer whose duty it was to announce the doom or sentence pronounced by the court.

Demulce (v. t.) To soothe; to mollify; to pacify; to soften.

Demulcent (a.) Softening; mollifying; soothing; assuasive; as, oil is demulcent.

Demulcent (n.) A substance, usually of a mucilaginous or oily nature, supposed to be capable of soothing an inflamed nervous membrane, or protecting it from irritation. Gum Arabic, glycerin, olive oil, etc., are demulcents.

Demulsion (n.) The act of soothing; that which soothes.

Demurred (imp. & p. p.) of Demur

Demurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demur

Demur (v. i.) To linger; to stay; to tarry.

Demur (v. i.) To delay; to pause; to suspend proceedings or judgment in view of a doubt or difficulty; to hesitate; to put off the determination or conclusion of an affair.

Demur (v. i.) To scruple or object; to take exception; as, I demur to that statement.

Demur (v. i.) To interpose a demurrer. See Demurrer, 2.

Demur (v. t.) To suspend judgment concerning; to doubt of or hesitate about.

Demur (v. t.) To cause delay to; to put off.

Demur (v. i.) Stop; pause; hesitation as to proceeding; suspense of decision or action; scruple.

Demure (a.) Of sober or serious mien; composed and decorous in bearing; of modest look; staid; grave.

Demure (a.) Affectedly modest, decorous, or serious; making a show of gravity.

Demure (v. i.) To look demurely.

Demurely (adv.) In a demure manner; soberly; gravely; -- now, commonly, with a mere show of gravity or modesty.

Demureness (n.) The state of being demure; gravity; the show of gravity or modesty.

Demurity (n.) Demureness; also, one who is demure.

Demurrable (a.) That may be demurred to.

Demurrage (n.) The detention of a vessel by the freighter beyond the time allowed in her charter party for loading, unloading, or sailing.

Demurrage (n.) The allowance made to the master or owner of the ship for such delay or detention.

Demurral (n.) Demur; delay in acting or deciding.

Demurrer (n.) One who demurs.

Demurrer (n.) A stop or pause by a party to an action, for the judgment of the court on the question, whether, assuming the truth of the matter alleged by the opposite party, it is sufficient in law to sustain the action or defense, and hence whether the party resting is bound to answer or proceed further.

Demies (pl. ) of Demy

Demy (n.) A printing and a writing paper of particular sizes. See under Paper.

Demy (n.) A half fellow at Magdalen College, Oxford.

Demy (a.) Pertaining to, or made of, the size of paper called demy; as, a demy book.

Den (n.) A small cavern or hollow place in the side of a hill, or among rocks; esp., a cave used by a wild beast for shelter or concealment; as, a lion's den; a den of robbers.

Den (n.) A squalid place of resort; a wretched dwelling place; a haunt; as, a den of vice.

Den (n.) Any snug or close retreat where one goes to be alone.

Den (n.) A narrow glen; a ravine; a dell.

Den (v. i.) To live in, or as in, a den.

Denarcotize (v. t.) To deprive of narcotine; as, to denarcotize opium.

Denarii (pl. ) of Denarius

Denarius (n.) A Roman silver coin of the value of about fourteen cents; the penny of the New Testament; -- so called from being worth originally ten of the pieces called as.

Denary (a.) Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, or decimal, scale.

Denary (n.) The number ten; a division into ten.

Denary (n.) A coin; the Anglicized form of denarius.

Denationalization (n.) The or process of denationalizing.

Denationalized (imp. & p. p.) of Denationalize

Denationalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denationalize

Denationalize (v. t.) To divest or deprive of national character or rights.

Denaturalized (imp. & p. p.) of Denaturalize

Denaturalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denaturalize

Denaturalize (v. t.) To render unnatural; to alienate from nature.

Denaturalize (v. t.) To renounce the natural rights and duties of; to deprive of citizenship; to denationalize.

Denay (v. t.) To deny.

Denay (n.) Denial; refusal.

Dendrachate (n.) Arborescent or dendritic agate.

Dendriform (a.) Resembling in structure a tree or shrub.

Dendrite (n.) A stone or mineral on or in which are branching figures resembling shrubs or trees, produced by a foreign mineral, usually an oxide of manganese, as in the moss agate; also, a crystallized mineral having an arborescent form, e. g., gold or silver; an arborization.

Dendritic (a.) Alt. of Dendritical

Dendritical (a.) Pertaining to a dendrite, or to arborescent crystallization; having a form resembling a shrub or tree; arborescent.

Dendroc/la (n. pl.) A division of the Turbellaria in which the digestive cavity gives off lateral branches, which are often divided into smaller branchlets.

Dendroid (a.) Alt. of Dendroidal

Dendroidal (a.) Resembling a shrub or tree in form; treelike.

Dendrolite (n.) A petrified or fossil shrub, plant, or part of a plant.

Dendrologist (n.) One versed in the natural history of trees.

Dendrologous (a.) Relating to dendrology.

Dendrology (n.) A discourse or treatise on trees; the natural history of trees.

Dendrometer (n.) An instrument to measure the height and diameter of trees.

Denegate (v. t.) To deny.

Denegation (n.) Denial.

Dengue (n.) A specific epidemic disease attended with high fever, cutaneous eruption, and severe pains in the head and limbs, resembling those of rheumatism; -- called also breakbone fever. It occurs in India, Egypt, the West Indies, etc., is of short duration, and rarely fatal.

Deniable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, denied.

Denial (n.) The act of gainsaying, refusing, or disowning; negation; -- the contrary of affirmation.

Denial (n.) A refusal to admit the truth of a statement, charge, imputation, etc.; assertion of the untruth of a thing stated or maintained; a contradiction.

Denial (n.) A refusal to grant; rejection of a request.

Denial (n.) A refusal to acknowledge; disclaimer of connection with; disavowal; -- the contrary of confession; as, the denial of a fault charged on one; a denial of God.

Deniance (n.) Denial.

Denier (n.) One who denies; as, a denier of a fact, or of the faith, or of Christ.

Denier (n.) A small copper coin of insignificant value.

Denigrate (v. t.) To blacken thoroughly; to make very black.

Denigrate (v. t.) Fig.: To blacken or sully; to defame.

Denigration (n.) The act of making black.

Denigration (n.) Fig.: A blackening; defamation.

Denigrator (n.) One who, or that which, blackens.

Denim (n.) A coarse cotton drilling used for overalls, etc.

Denitration (n.) A disengaging, or removal, of nitric acid.

Denitrification (n.) The act or process of freeing from nitrogen; also, the condition resulting from the removal of nitrogen.

Denitrify (v. t.) To deprive of, or free from, nitrogen.

Denization (n.) The act of making one a denizen or adopted citizen; naturalization.

Denize (v. t.) To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; to naturalize.

Denizen (n.) A dweller; an inhabitant.

Denizen (n.) One who is admitted by favor to all or a part of the rights of citizenship, where he did not possess them by birth; an adopted or naturalized citizen.

Denizen (n.) One admitted to residence in a foreign country.

Denizen (v. t.) To constitute (one) a denizen; to admit to residence, with certain rights and privileges.

Denizen (v. t.) To provide with denizens; to populate with adopted or naturalized occupants.

Denizenation (n.) Denization; denizening.

Denizenize (v. t.) To constitute (one) a denizen; to denizen.

Denizenship (n.) State of being a denizen.

Denmark satin () See under Satin.

Dennet (n.) A light, open, two-wheeled carriage for one horse; a kind of gig.

Denominable (a.) Capable of being denominated or named.

Denominated (imp. & p. p.) of Denominate

Denominating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denominate

Denominate (v. t.) To give a name to; to characterize by an epithet; to entitle; to name; to designate.

Denominate (a.) Having a specific name or denomination; specified in the concrete as opposed to abstract; thus, 7 feet is a denominate quantity, while 7 is mere abstract quantity or number. See Compound number, under Compound.

Denomination (n.) The act of naming or designating.

Denomination (n.) That by which anything is denominated or styled; an epithet; a name, designation, or title; especially, a general name indicating a class of like individuals; a category; as, the denomination of units, or of thousands, or of fourths, or of shillings, or of tons.

Denomination (n.) A class, or society of individuals, called by the same name; a sect; as, a denomination of Christians.

Denominational (a.) Pertaining to a denomination, especially to a sect or society.

Denominationalism (n.) A denominational or class spirit or policy; devotion to the interests of a sect or denomination.

Denominationalist (n.) One imbued with a denominational spirit.

Denominationally (adv.) In a denominational manner; by denomination or sect.

Denominative (a.) Conferring a denomination or name.

Denominative (a.) Connotative; as, a denominative name.

Denominative (a.) Possessing, or capable of possessing, a distinct denomination or designation; denominable.

Denominative (a.) Derived from a substantive or an adjective; as, a denominative verb.

Denominative (n.) A denominative name or term; denominative verb.

Denominatively (adv.) By denomination.

Denominator (n.) One who, or that which, gives a name; origin or source of a name.

Denominator (n.) That number placed below the line in vulgar fractions which shows into how many parts the integer or unit is divided.

Denominator (n.) That part of any expression under a fractional form which is situated below the horizontal line signifying division.

Denotable (a.) Capable of being denoted or marked.

Denotate (v. t.) To mark off; to denote.

Denotation (n.) The marking off or separation of anything.

Denotative (a.) Having power to denote; designating or marking off.

Denoted (imp. & p. p.) of Denote

Denoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denote

Denote (v. t.) To mark out plainly; to signify by a visible sign; to serve as the sign or name of; to indicate; to point out; as, the hands of the clock denote the hour.

Denote (v. t.) To be the sign of; to betoken; to signify; to mean.

Denotement (n.) Sign; indication.

Denotive (a.) Serving to denote.

Denouement (n.) The unraveling or discovery of a plot; the catastrophe, especially of a drama or a romance.

Denouement (n.) The solution of a mystery; issue; outcome.

Denounced (imp. & p. p.) of Denounce

Denouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denounce

Denounce (v. t.) To make known in a solemn or official manner; to declare; to proclaim (especially an evil).

Denounce (v. t.) To proclaim in a threatening manner; to threaten by some outward sign or expression.

Denounce (v. t.) To point out as deserving of reprehension or punishment, etc.; to accuse in a threatening manner; to invoke censure upon; to stigmatize.

Denouncement (n.) Solemn, official, or menacing announcement; denunciation.

Denouncer (n.) One who denounces, or declares, as a menace.

Dense (a.) Having the constituent parts massed or crowded together; close; compact; thick; containing much matter in a small space; heavy; opaque; as, a dense crowd; a dense forest; a dense fog.

Dense (a.) Stupid; gross; crass; as, dense ignorance.

Densely (adv.) In a dense, compact manner.

Denseless (n.) The quality of being dense; density.

Densimeter (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity or density of a substance.

Density (n.) The quality of being dense, close, or thick; compactness; -- opposed to rarity.

Density (n.) The ratio of mass, or quantity of matter, to bulk or volume, esp. as compared with the mass and volume of a portion of some substance used as a standard.

Density (n.) Depth of shade.

Dent (n.) A stroke; a blow.

Dent (n.) A slight depression, or small notch or hollow, made by a blow or by pressure; an indentation.

Dented (imp. & p. p.) of Dent

Denting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dent

Dent (v. t.) To make a dent upon; to indent.

Dent (n.) A tooth, as of a card, a gear wheel, etc.

Dental (a.) Of or pertaining to the teeth or to dentistry; as, dental surgery.

Dental (a.) Formed by the aid of the teeth; -- said of certain articulations and the letters representing them; as, d t are dental letters.

Dental (a.) An articulation or letter formed by the aid of the teeth.

Dental (a.) A marine mollusk of the genus Dentalium, with a curved conical shell resembling a tooth. See Dentalium.

Dentalism (n.) The quality of being formed by the aid of the teeth.

Dentalium (n.) A genus of marine mollusks belonging to the Scaphopoda, having a tubular conical shell.

Dentary (a.) Pertaining to, or bearing, teeth.

Dentary (n.) The distal bone of the lower jaw in many animals, which may or may not bear teeth.

Dentate (a.) Alt. of Dentated

Dentated (a.) Toothed; especially, with the teeth projecting straight out, not pointed either forward or backward; as, a dentate leaf.

Dentated (a.) Having teeth or toothlike points. See Illust. of Antennae.

Dentate-ciliate (a.) Having the margin dentate and also ciliate or fringed with hairs.

Dentately (adv.) In a dentate or toothed manner; as, dentately ciliated, etc.

Dentate-sinuate (a.) Having a form intermediate between dentate and sinuate.

Dentation (n.) Formation of teeth; toothed form.

Dented (v. t.) Indented; impressed with little hollows.

Dentel (n.) Same as Dentil.

Dentelle (n.) An ornamental tooling like lace.

Dentelli (n. pl.) Modillions.

Dentex (n.) An edible European marine fish (Sparus dentex, or Dentex vulgaris) of the family Percidae.

Denticete (n. pl.) The division of Cetacea in which the teeth are developed, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.

Denticle (n.) A small tooth or projecting point.

Denticulate (a.) Alt. of Denticulated

Denticulated (a.) Furnished with denticles; notched into little toothlike projections; as, a denticulate leaf of calyx.

Denticulation (n.) The state of being set with small notches or teeth.

Denticulation (n.) A diminutive tooth; a denticle.

Dentiferous (a.) Bearing teeth; dentigerous.

Dentiform (a.) Having the form of a tooth or of teeth; tooth-shaped.

Dentifrice (n.) A powder or other substance to be used in cleaning the teeth; tooth powder.

Dentigerous (a.) Bearing teeth or toothlike structures.

Dentil (n.) A small square block or projection in cornices, a number of which are ranged in an ornamental band; -- used particularly in the Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite orders.

Dentilabial (a.) Formed by the teeth and the lips, or representing a sound so formed.

Dentilabial (n.) A dentilabial sound or letter.

Dentilated (a.) Toothed.

Dentilation (n.) Dentition.

Dentilave (n.) A wash for cleaning the teeth.

Dentile (n.) A small tooth, like that of a saw.

Dentilingual (a.) Produced by applying the tongue to the teeth or to the gums; or representing a sound so formed.

Dentilingual (n.) A dentilingual sound or letter.

Dentiloquist (n.) One who speaks through the teeth, that is, with the teeth closed.

Dentiloquy (n.) The habit or practice of speaking through the teeth, or with them closed.

Dential (a.) Of or pertaining to dentine.

Dentine (n.) The dense calcified substance of which teeth are largely composed. It contains less animal matter than bone, and in the teeth of man is situated beneath the enamel.

Dentiphone (n.) An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to the auditory nerve; an audiphone.

Dentirostres (pl. ) of Dentiroster

Dentiroster (n.) A dentirostral bird.

Dentirostral (a.) Having a toothed bill; -- applied to a group of passerine birds, having the bill notched, and feeding chiefly on insects, as the shrikes and vireos. See Illust. (N) under Beak.

Dentirostrate (a.) Dentirostral.

Dentiscalp (n.) An instrument for scraping the teeth.

Dentist (n.) One whose business it is to clean, extract, or repair natural teeth, and to make and insert artificial ones; a dental surgeon.

Dentistic (a.) Alt. of Dentistical

Dentistical (a.) Pertaining to dentistry or to dentists.

Dentistry (n.) The art or profession of a dentist; dental surgery.

Dentition (n.) The development and cutting of teeth; teething.

Dentition (n.) The system of teeth peculiar to an animal.

Dentized (imp. & p. p.) of Dentize

Dentizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dentize

Dentize (v. t. & i.) To breed or cut new teeth.

Dentoid (a.) Shaped like a tooth; tooth-shaped.

Dentolingual (a.) Dentilingual.

Denture (n.) An artificial tooth, block, or set of teeth.

Denudate (v. t.) To denude.

Denudation (n.) The act of stripping off covering, or removing the surface; a making bare.

Denudation (n.) The laying bare of rocks by the washing away of the overlying earth, etc.; or the excavation and removal of them by the action of running water.

Denude (v. t.) To divest of all covering; to make bare or naked; to strip; to divest; as, to denude one of clothing, or lands.

Denunciate (v. t.) To denounce; to condemn publicly or solemnly.

Denunciation (n.) Proclamation; announcement; a publishing.

Denunciation (n.) The act of denouncing; public menace or accusation; the act of inveighing against, stigmatizing, or publicly arraigning; arraignment.

Denunciation (n.) That by which anything is denounced; threat of evil; public menace or accusation; arraignment.

Denunciative (a.) Same as Denunciatory.

Denunciator (n.) One who denounces, publishes, or proclaims, especially intended or coming evil; one who threatens or accuses.

Denunciatory (a.) Characterized by or containing a denunciation; minatory; accusing; threatening; as, severe and denunciatory language.

Denutrition (n.) The opposition of nutrition; the failure of nutrition causing the breaking down of tissue.

Denied (imp. & p. p.) of Deny

Denying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deny

Deny (v. t.) To declare not to be true; to gainsay; to contradict; -- opposed to affirm, allow, or admit.

Deny (v. t.) To refuse (to do something or to accept something); to reject; to decline; to renounce.

Deny (v. t.) To refuse to grant; to withhold; to refuse to gratify or yield to; as, to deny a request.

Deny (v. t.) To disclaim connection with, responsibility for, and the like; to refuse to acknowledge; to disown; to abjure; to disavow.

Deny (v. i.) To answer in /// negative; to declare an assertion not to be true.

Denyingly (adv.) In the manner of one denies a request.

Deobstruct (v. t.) To remove obstructions or impediments in; to clear from anything that hinders the passage of fluids; as, to deobstruct the pores or lacteals.

Deobstruent (a.) Removing obstructions; having power to clear or open the natural ducts of the fluids and secretions of the body; aperient.

Deobstruent (n.) A medicine which removes obstructions; an aperient.

Deodand (n.) A personal chattel which had caused the death of a person, and for that reason was given to God, that is, forfeited to the crown, to be applied to pious uses, and distributed in alms by the high almoner. Thus, if a cart ran over a man and killed him, it was forfeited as a deodand.

Deodar (n.) A kind of cedar (Cedrus Deodara), growing in India, highly valued for its size and beauty as well as for its timber, and also grown in England as an ornamental tree.

Deodate (n.) A gift or offering to God.

Deodorant (n.) A deodorizer.

Deodorization (n.) The act of depriving of odor, especially of offensive odors resulting from impurities.

Deodorize (v. t.) To deprive of odor, especially of such as results from impurities.

Deodorizer (n.) He who, or that which, deodorizes; esp., an agent that destroys offensive odors.

Deonerate (v. t.) To unload; to disburden.

Deontological (a.) Pertaining to deontology.

Deontologist (n.) One versed in deontology.

Deontology (n.) The science relat/ to duty or moral obligation.

Deoperculate (a.) Having the lid removed; -- said of the capsules of mosses.

Deoppilate (v. t.) To free from obstructions; to clear a passage through.

Deoppilation (n.) Removal of whatever stops up the passages.

Deoppilative (a. & n.) Deobstruent; aperient.

Deordination (n.) Disorder; dissoluteness.

Deosculate (v. t.) To kiss warmly.

Deoxidate (v. t.) To deoxidize.

Deoxidation (n.) The act or process of reducing from the state of an oxide.

Deoxidization (n.) Deoxidation.

Deoxidize (v. t.) To deprive of oxygen; to reduce from the state of an oxide.

Deoxidizer (n.) That which removes oxygen; hence, a reducing agent; as, nascent hydrogen is a deoxidizer.

Deoxygenate (v. t.) To deoxidize.

Deoxygenation (n.) The act or operation of depriving of oxygen.

Deoxygenize (v. t.) To deoxidize.

Depaint (p. p.) Painted.

Depainted (imp. & p. p.) of Depaint

Depainting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depaint

Depaint (v. t.) To paint; to picture; hence, to describe; to delineate in words; to depict.

Depaint (v. t.) To mark with, or as with, color; to color.

Depainter (n.) One who depaints.

Depardieux (interj.) In God's name; certainly.

Departed (imp. & p. p.) of Depart

Departing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depart

Depart (v. i.) To part; to divide; to separate.

Depart (v. i.) To go forth or away; to quit, leave, or separate, as from a place or a person; to withdraw; -- opposed to arrive; -- often with from before the place, person, or thing left, and for or to before the destination.

Depart (v. i.) To forsake; to abandon; to desist or deviate (from); not to adhere to; -- with from; as, we can not depart from our rules; to depart from a title or defense in legal pleading.

Depart (v. i.) To pass away; to perish.

Depart (v. i.) To quit this world; to die.

Depart (v. t.) To part thoroughly; to dispart; to divide; to separate.

Depart (v. t.) To divide in order to share; to apportion.

Depart (v. t.) To leave; to depart from.

Depart (n.) Division; separation, as of compound substances into their ingredients.

Depart (n.) A going away; departure; hence, death.

Departable (a.) Divisible.

Departer (n.) One who refines metals by separation.

Departer (n.) One who departs.

Department (v. i.) Act of departing; departure.

Department (v. i.) A part, portion, or subdivision.

Department (v. i.) A distinct course of life, action, study, or the like; appointed sphere or walk; province.

Department (v. i.) Subdivision of business or official duty; especially, one of the principal divisions of executive government; as, the treasury department; the war department; also, in a university, one of the divisions of instruction; as, the medical department; the department of physics.

Department (v. i.) A territorial division; a district; esp., in France, one of the districts composed of several arrondissements into which the country is divided for governmental purposes; as, the Department of the Loire.

Department (v. i.) A military subdivision of a country; as, the Department of the Potomac.

Departmental (a.) Pertaining to a department or division.

Departure (n.) Division; separation; putting away.

Departure (n.) Separation or removal from a place; the act or process of departing or going away.

Departure (n.) Removal from the present life; death; decease.

Departure (n.) Deviation or abandonment, as from or of a rule or course of action, a plan, or a purpose.

Departure (n.) The desertion by a party to any pleading of the ground taken by him in his last antecedent pleading, and the adoption of another.

Departure (n.) The distance due east or west which a person or ship passes over in going along an oblique line.

Depascent (a.) Feeding.

Depasture (v. t. & i.) To pasture; to feed; to graze; also, to use for pasture.

Depatriate (v. t. & i.) To withdraw, or cause to withdraw, from one's country; to banish.

Depauperated (imp. & p. p.) of Depauperate

Depauperating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depauperate

Depauperate (v. t. & i.) To make poor; to impoverish.

Depauperate (a.) Falling short of the natural size, from being impoverished or starved.

Depauperize (v. t.) To free from paupers; to rescue from poverty.

Depeach (v. t.) To discharge.

Depectible (a.) Tough; thick; capable of extension.

Depeculation (n.) A robbing or embezzlement.

Depeinct (v. t.) To paint.

Depended (imp. & p. p.) of Depend

Depending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depend

Depend (v. i.) To hang down; to be sustained by being fastened or attached to something above.

Depend (v. i.) To hang in suspense; to be pending; to be undetermined or undecided; as, a cause depending in court.

Depend (v. i.) To rely for support; to be conditioned or contingent; to be connected with anything, as a cause of existence, or as a necessary condition; -- followed by on or upon, formerly by of.

Depend (v. i.) To trust; to rest with confidence; to rely; to confide; to be certain; -- with on or upon; as, we depend on the word or assurance of our friends; we depend on the mail at the usual hour.

Depend (v. i.) To serve; to attend; to act as a dependent or retainer.

Depend (v. i.) To impend.

Dependable (a.) Worthy of being depended on; trustworthy.

Dependant (n.) Alt. of Dependancy

Dependance (n.) Alt. of Dependancy

Dependancy (n.) See Dependent, Dependence, Dependency.

Dependence (n.) The act or state of depending; state of being dependent; a hanging down or from; suspension from a support.

Dependence (n.) The state of being influenced and determined by something; subjection (as of an effect to its cause).

Dependence (n.) Mutu/// /onnection and support; concatenation; systematic ///er relation.

Dependence (n.) Subjection to the direction or disposal of another; inability to help or provide for one's self.

Dependence (n.) A resting with confidence; reliance; trust.

Dependence (n.) That on which one depends or relies; as, he was her sole dependence.

Dependence (n.) That which depends; anything dependent or suspended; anything attached a subordinate to, or contingent on, something else.

Dependence (n.) A matter depending, or in suspense, and still to be determined; ground of controversy or quarrel.

Dependencies (pl. ) of Dependency

Dependency (n.) State of being dependent; dependence; state of being subordinate; subordination; concatenation; connection; reliance; trust.

Dependency (n.) A thing hanging down; a dependence.

Dependency (n.) That which is attached to something else as its consequence, subordinate, satellite, and the like.

Dependency (n.) A territory remote from the kingdom or state to which it belongs, but subject to its dominion; a colony; as, Great Britain has its dependencies in Asia, Africa, and America.

Dependent (a.) Hanging down; as, a dependent bough or leaf.

Dependent (a.) Relying on, or subject to, something else for support; not able to exist, or sustain itself, or to perform anything, without the will, power, or aid of something else; not self-sustaining; contingent or conditioned; subordinate; -- often with on or upon; as, dependent on God; dependent upon friends.

Dependent (n.) One who depends; one who is sustained by another, or who relies on another for support of favor; a hanger-on; a retainer; as, a numerous train of dependents.

Dependent (n.) That which depends; corollary; consequence.

Dependently (adv.) In a dependent manner.

Depender (n.) One who depends; a dependent.

Dependingly (adv.) As having dependence.

Depeople (v. t.) To depopulate.

Deperdit (n.) That which is lost or destroyed.

Deperditely (adv.) Hopelessly; despairingly; in the manner of one ruined; as, deperditely wicked.

Deperdition (n.) Loss; destruction.

Depertible (a.) Divisible.

Dephlegm (v. t.) To rid of phlegm or water; to dephlegmate.

Dephlegmated (imp. & p. p.) of Dephlegmate

Dephlegmating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dephlegmate

Dephlegmate (v. t.) To deprive of superabundant water, as by evaporation or distillation; to clear of aqueous matter; to rectify; -- used of spirits and acids.

Dephlegmation (n.) The operation of separating water from spirits and acids, by evaporation or repeated distillation; -- called also concentration, especially when acids are the subject of it.

Dephlegmator (n.) An instrument or apparatus in which water is separated by evaporation or distillation; the part of a distilling apparatus in which the separation of the vapors is effected.

Dephlegmatory (a.) Pertaining to, or producing, dephlegmation.

Dephlegmedness (n.) A state of being freed from water.

Dephlogisticated (imp. & p. p.) of Dephlogisticcate

Dephlogisticating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dephlogisticcate

Dephlogisticcate (v. t.) To deprive of phlogiston, or the supposed principle of inflammability.

Dephosphorization (n.) The act of freeing from phosphorous.

Depict (p. p.) Depicted.

Depict (p. p.) Depicted.

Depicted (imp. & p. p.) of Depict

Depicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depict

Depict (v. t.) To form a colored likeness of; to represent by a picture; to paint; to portray.

Depict (v. t.) To represent in words; to describe vividly.

Depiction (n.) A painting or depicting; a representation.

Depictured (imp. & p. p.) of Depicture

Depicturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depicture

Depicture (v. t.) To make a picture of; to paint; to picture; to depict.

Depilated (imp. & p. p.) of Depilate

Depilating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depilate

Depilate (v. t.) To strip of hair; to husk.

Depilation (n.) Act of pulling out or removing the hair; unhairing.

Depilatory (a.) Having the quality or power of removing hair.

Depilatory (n.) An application used to take off hair.

Depilous (a.) Hairless.

Deplanate (v. t.) Flattened; made level or even.

Deplant (v. t.) To take up (plants); to transplant.

Deplantation (n.) Act of taking up plants from beds.

Depleted (imp. & p. p.) of Deplete

Depleting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deplete

Deplete (a.) To empty or unload, as the vessels of human system, by bloodletting or by medicine.

Deplete (a.) To reduce by destroying or consuming the vital powers of; to exhaust, as a country of its strength or resources, a treasury of money, etc.

Depletion (n.) The act of depleting or emptying.

Depletion (n.) the act or process of diminishing the quantity of fluid in the vessels by bloodletting or otherwise; also excessive evacuation, as in severe diarrhea.

Depletive (a.) Able or fitted to deplete.

Depletive (n.) A substance used to deplete.

Depletory (a.) Serving to deplete.

Deplication (n.) An unfolding, untwisting, or unplaiting.

Deploitation (n.) Same as Exploitation.

Deplorability (n.) Deplorableness.

Deplorable (a.) Worthy of being deplored or lamented; lamentable; causing grief; hence, sad; calamitous; grievous; wretched; as, life's evils are deplorable.

Deplorableness (n.) State of being deplorable.

Deplorably (adv.) In a deplorable manner.

Deplorate (a.) Deplorable.

Deploration (n.) The act of deploring or lamenting; lamentation.

Deplored (imp. & p. p.) of Deplore

Deploring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deplore

Deplore (v. t.) To feel or to express deep and poignant grief for; to bewail; to lament; to mourn; to sorrow over.

Deplore (v. t.) To complain of.

Deplore (v. t.) To regard as hopeless; to give up.

Deplore (v. i.) To lament.

Deploredly (adv.) Lamentably.

Deploredness (n.) The state of being deplored or deplorable.

Deplorement (n.) Deploration.

Deplorre (n.) One who deplores.

Deploringly (adv.) In a deploring manner.

Deployed (imp. & p. p.) of Deploy

Deploying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deploy

Deploy (v. t. & i.) To open out; to unfold; to spread out (a body of troops) in such a way that they shall display a wider front and less depth; -- the reverse of ploy; as, to deploy a column of troops into line of battle.

Deploy (n.) Alt. of Deployment

Deployment (n.) The act of deploying; a spreading out of a body of men in order to extend their front.

Deplumate (a.) Destitute or deprived of features; deplumed.

Deplumation (n.) The stripping or falling off of plumes or feathers.

Deplumation (n.) A disease of the eyelids, attended with loss of the eyelashes.

Deplumed (imp. & p. p.) of Deplume

Depluming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deplume

Deplume (v. t.) To strip or pluck off the feather of; to deprive of of plumage.

Deplume (v. t.) To lay bare; to expose.

Depolarization (n.) The act of depriving of polarity, or the result of such action; reduction to an unpolarized condition.

Depolarized (imp. & p. p.) of Depolarize

Depolarizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depolarize

Depolarize (v. t.) To deprive of polarity; to reduce to an unpolarized condition.

Depolarize (v. t.) To free from polarization, as the negative plate of the voltaic battery.

Depolarizer (n.) A substance used to prevent polarization, as upon the negative plate of a voltaic battery.

Depolish (v. t.) To remove the polish or glaze from.

Depolishing (n.) The process of removing the vitreous glaze from porcelain, leaving the dull luster of the surface of ivory porcelain.

Deponed (imp. & p. p.) of Depone

Deponing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depone

Depone (v. t.) To lay, as a stake; to wager.

Depone (v. t.) To lay down.

Depone (v. t.) To assert under oath; to depose.

Depone (v. i.) To testify under oath; to depose; to bear witness.

Deponent (v. t.) One who deposes or testifies under oath; one who gives evidence; usually, one who testifies in writing.

Deponent (v. t.) A deponent verb.

Deponent (a.) Having a passive form with an active meaning, as certain latin and Greek verbs.

Depopulacy (n.) Depopulation; destruction of population.

Depopulated (imp. & p. p.) of Depopulate

Depopulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depopulate

Depopulate (v. t.) To deprive of inhabitants, whether by death or by expulsion; to reduce greatly the populousness of; to dispeople; to unpeople.

Depopulate (v. i.) To become dispeopled.

Depopulation (n.) The act of depopulating, or condition of being depopulated; destruction or explusion of inhabitants.

Depopulator (n.) One who depopulates; a dispeopler.

Deported (imp. & p. p.) of Deport

Deporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deport

Deport (v. t.) To transport; to carry away; to exile; to send into banishment.

Deport (v. t.) To carry or demean; to conduct; to behave; -- followed by the reflexive pronoun.

Deport (n.) Behavior; carriage; demeanor; deportment.

Deportation (n.) The act of deporting or exiling, or the state of being deported; banishment; transportation.

Deportment (n.) Manner of deporting or demeaning one's self; manner of acting; conduct; carriage; especially, manner of acting with respect to the courtesies and duties of life; behavior; demeanor; bearing.

Deporture (n.) Deportment.

Deposable (a.) Capable of being deposed or deprived of office.

Deposal (n.) The act of deposing from office; a removal from the throne.

Deposed (imp. & p. p.) of Depose

Deposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depose

Depose (v. t.) To lay down; to divest one's self of; to lay aside.

Depose (v. t.) To let fall; to deposit.

Depose (v. t.) To remove from a throne or other high station; to dethrone; to divest or deprive of office.

Depose (v. t.) To testify under oath; to bear testimony to; -- now usually said of bearing testimony which is officially written down for future use.

Depose (v. t.) To put under oath.

Depose (v. i.) To bear witness; to testify under oath; to make deposition.

Deposer (n.) One who deposes or degrades from office.

Deposer (n.) One who testifies or deposes; a deponent.

Deposited (imp. & p. p.) of Deposit

Depositing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deposit

Deposit (n.) To lay down; to place; to put; to let fall or throw down (as sediment); as, a crocodile deposits her eggs in the sand; the waters deposited a rich alluvium.

Deposit (n.) To lay up or away for safe keeping; to put up; to store; as, to deposit goods in a warehouse.

Deposit (n.) To lodge in some one's hands for safe keeping; to commit to the custody of another; to intrust; esp., to place in a bank, as a sum of money subject to order.

Deposit (n.) To lay aside; to rid one's self of.

Deposit (v. t.) That which is deposited, or laid or thrown down; as, a deposit in a flue; especially, matter precipitated from a solution (as the siliceous deposits of hot springs), or that which is mechanically deposited (as the mud, gravel, etc., deposits of a river).

Deposit (v. t.) A natural occurrence of a useful mineral under the conditions to invite exploitation.

Deposit (v. t.) That which is placed anywhere, or in any one's hands, for safe keeping; something intrusted to the care of another; esp., money lodged with a bank or banker, subject to order; anything given as pledge or security.

Deposit (v. t.) A bailment of money or goods to be kept gratuitously for the bailor.

Deposit (v. t.) Money lodged with a party as earnest or security for the performance of a duty assumed by the person depositing.

Deposit (v. t.) A place of deposit; a depository.

Depositaries (pl. ) of Depositary

Depositary (n.) One with whom anything is lodged in the trust; one who receives a deposit; -- the correlative of depositor.

Depositary (n.) A storehouse; a depository.

Depositary (n.) One to whom goods are bailed, to be kept for the bailor without a recompense.

Deposition (n.) The act of depositing or deposing; the act of laying down or thrown down; precipitation.

Deposition (n.) The act of bringing before the mind; presentation.

Deposition (n.) The act of setting aside a sovereign or a public officer; deprivation of authority and dignity; displacement; removal.

Deposition (n.) That which is deposited; matter laid or thrown down; sediment; alluvial matter; as, banks are sometimes depositions of alluvial matter.

Deposition (n.) An opinion, example, or statement, laid down or asserted; a declaration.

Deposition (n.) The act of laying down one's testimony in writing; also, testimony laid or taken down in writing, under oath or affirmation, before some competent officer, and in reply to interrogatories and cross-interrogatories.

Depositor (n.) One who makes a deposit, especially of money in a bank; -- the correlative of depository.

Depositories (pl. ) of Depository

Depository (n.) A place where anything is deposited for sale or keeping; as, warehouse is a depository for goods; a clerk's office is a depository for records.

Depository (n.) One with whom something is deposited; a depositary.

Depositum (n.) Deposit.

Depositure (n.) The act of depositing; deposition.

Depot (n.) A place of deposit for the storing of goods; a warehouse; a storehouse.

Depot (n.) A military station where stores and provisions are kept, or where recruits are assembled and drilled.

Depot (n.) The headquarters of a regiment, where all supplies are received and distributed, recruits are assembled and instructed, infirm or disabled soldiers are taken care of, and all the wants of the regiment are provided for.

Depot (n.) A railway station; a building for the accommodation and protection of railway passengers or freight.

Depper (a.) Deeper.

Depravation (n.) Detraction; depreciation.

Depravation (n.) The act of depraving, or making anything bad; the act of corrupting.

Depravation (n.) The state of being depraved or degenerated; degeneracy; depravity.

Depravation (n.) Change for the worse; deterioration; morbid perversion.

Depraved (imp. & p. p.) of Deprave

Depraving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deprave

Deprave (n. t.) To speak ill of; to depreciate; to malign; to revile.

Deprave (n. t.) To make bad or worse; to vitiate; to corrupt.

Depravedly (adv.) In a depraved manner.

Depravedness (n.) Depravity.

Depravement (n.) Depravity.

Depraver (n.) One who deprave or corrupts.

Depravingly (adv.) In a depraving manner.

Depravity (n.) The state of being depraved or corrupted; a vitiated state of moral character; general badness of character; wickedness of mind or heart; absence of religious feeling and principle.

Deprecable (a.) That may or should be deprecated.

Deprecated (imp. & p. p.) of Deprecate

Deprecating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deprecate

Deprecate (v. t.) To pray against, as an evil; to seek to avert by prayer; to desire the removal of; to seek deliverance from; to express deep regret for; to disapprove of strongly.

Deprecatingly (adv.) In a deprecating manner.

Deprecation (n.) The act of deprecating; a praying against evil; prayer that an evil may be removed or prevented; strong expression of disapprobation.

Deprecation (n.) Entreaty for pardon; petitioning.

Deprecation (n.) An imprecation or curse.

Deprecative (a.) Serving to deprecate; deprecatory.

Deprecator (n.) One who deprecates.

Deprecatory (a.) Serving to deprecate; tending to remove or avert evil by prayer; apologetic.

Depreciated (imp. & p. p.) of Depreciate

Depreciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depreciate

Depreciate (v. t.) To lessen in price or estimated value; to lower the worth of; to represent as of little value or claim to esteem; to undervalue.

Depreciate (v. i.) To fall in value; to become of less worth; to sink in estimation; as, a paper currency will depreciate, unless it is convertible into specie.

Depreciation (n.) The act of lessening, or seeking to lessen, price, value, or reputation.

Depreciation (n.) The falling of value; reduction of worth.

Depreciation (n.) the state of being depreciated.

Depreciative (a.) Tending, or intended, to depreciate; expressing depreciation; undervaluing.

Depreciator (n.) One who depreciates.

Depreciatory (a.) Tending to depreciate; undervaluing; depreciative.

Depredable (a.) Liable to depredation.

Depredated (imp. & p. p.) of Depredate

Depredating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depredate

Depredate (v. t.) To subject to plunder and pillage; to despoil; to lay waste; to prey upon.

Depredate (v. i.) To take plunder or prey; to commit waste; as, the troops depredated on the country.

Depredation (n.) The act of depredating, or the state of being depredated; the act of despoiling or making inroads; as, the sea often makes depredation on the land.

Depredator (n.) One who plunders or pillages; a spoiler; a robber.

Depredatory (a.) Tending or designed to depredate; characterized by depredation; plundering; as, a depredatory incursion.

Depreicate (v. t.) To proclaim; to celebrate.

Deprehended (imp. & p. p.) of Deprehend

Deprehending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deprehend

Deprehend (v. t.) To take unwares or by surprise; to seize, as a person commiting an unlawful act; to catch; to apprehend.

Deprehend (v. t.) To detect; to discover; to find out.

Deprehensible (a.) That may be caught or discovered; apprehensible.

Deprehension (n.) A catching; discovery.

Depressed (imp. & p. p.) of Depress

Depressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depress

Depress (v. t.) To press down; to cause to sink; to let fall; to lower; as, to depress the muzzle of a gun; to depress the eyes.

Depress (v. t.) To bring down or humble; to abase, as pride.

Depress (v. t.) To cast a gloom upon; to sadden; as, his spirits were depressed.

Depress (v. t.) To lessen the activity of; to make dull; embarrass, as trade, commerce, etc.

Depress (v. t.) To lessen in price; to cause to decline in value; to cheapen; to depreciate.

Depress (v. t.) To reduce (an equation) in a lower degree.

Depress (a.) Having the middle lower than the border; concave.

Depressant (n.) An agent or remedy which lowers the vital powers.

Depressed (a.) Pressed or forced down; lowed; sunk; dejected; dispirited; sad; humbled.

Depressed (a.) Concave on the upper side; -- said of a leaf whose disk is lower than the border.

Depressed (a.) Lying flat; -- said of a stem or leaf which lies close to the ground.

Depressed (a.) Having the vertical diameter shorter than the horizontal or transverse; -- said of the bodies of animals, or of parts of the bodies.

Depressingly (adv.) In a depressing manner.

Depression (n.) The act of depressing.

Depression (n.) The state of being depressed; a sinking.

Depression (n.) A falling in of the surface; a sinking below its true place; a cavity or hollow; as, roughness consists in little protuberances and depressions.

Depression (n.) Humiliation; abasement, as of pride.

Depression (n.) Dejection; despondency; lowness.

Depression (n.) Diminution, as of trade, etc.; inactivity; dullness.

Depression (n.) The angular distance of a celestial object below the horizon.

Depression (n.) The operation of reducing to a lower degree; -- said of equations.

Depression (n.) A method of operating for cataract; couching. See Couch, v. t., 8.

Depressive (a.) Able or tending to depress or cast down.

Depressomotor (a.) Depressing or diminishing the capacity for movement, as depressomotor nerves, which lower or inhibit muscular activity.

Depressomotor (n.) Any agent that depresses the activity of the motor centers, as bromides, etc.

Depressor (n.) One who, or that which, presses down; an oppressor.

Depressor (n.) A muscle that depresses or tends to draw down a part.

Depriment (a.) Serving to depress.

Deprisure (n.) Low estimation; disesteem; contempt.

Deprivable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, deprived; liable to be deposed.

Deprivation (n.) The act of depriving, dispossessing, or bereaving; the act of deposing or divesting of some dignity.

Deprivation (n.) The state of being deprived; privation; loss; want; bereavement.

Deprivation (n.) the taking away from a clergyman his benefice, or other spiritual promotion or dignity.

Deprived (imp. & p. p.) of Deprive

Depriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deprive

Deprive (v. t.) To take away; to put an end; to destroy.

Deprive (v. t.) To dispossess; to bereave; to divest; to hinder from possessing; to debar; to shut out from; -- with a remoter object, usually preceded by of.

Deprive (v. t.) To divest of office; to depose; to dispossess of dignity, especially ecclesiastical.

Deprivement (n.) Deprivation.

Depriver (n.) One who, or that which, deprives.

Deprostrate (a.) Fully prostrate; humble; low; rude.

Deprovincialize (v. t.) To divest of provincial quality or characteristics.

Depth (n.) The quality of being deep; deepness; perpendicular measurement downward from the surface, or horizontal measurement backward from the front; as, the depth of a river; the depth of a body of troops.

Depth (n.) Profoundness; extent or degree of intensity; abundance; completeness; as, depth of knowledge, or color.

Depth (n.) Lowness; as, depth of sound.

Depth (n.) That which is deep; a deep, or the deepest, part or place; the deep; the middle part; as, the depth of night, or of winter.

Depth (n.) The number of simple elements which an abstract conception or notion includes; the comprehension or content.

Depth (n.) A pair of toothed wheels which work together.

Depthen (v. t.) To deepen.

Depthless (a.) Having no depth; shallow.

Depthless (a.) Of measureless depth; unfathomable.

Depucelate (v. t.) To deflour; to deprive of virginity.

Depudicate (v. t.) To deflour; to dishonor.

Depulse (v. t.) To drive away.

Depulsion (n.) A driving or thrusting away.

Depulsory (a.) Driving or thrusting away; averting.

Depurant (a. & n.) Depurative.

Depurate (a.) Depurated; cleansed; freed from impurities.

Depurated (imp. & p. p.) of Depurate

Depurating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depurate

Depurate (v. t.) To free from impurities, heterogeneous matter, or feculence; to purify; to cleanse.

Depuration (n.) The act or process of depurating or freeing from foreign or impure matter, as a liquid or wound.

Depurative (a.) Purifying the blood or the humors; depuratory.

Depurative (n.) A depurative remedy or agent; or a disease which is believed to be depurative.

Depurator (n.) One who, or that which, cleanses.

Depuratory (a.) Depurating; tending to depurate or cleanse; depurative.

Depure (v. t.) To depurate; to purify.

Depurgatory (a.) Serving to purge; tending to cleanse or purify.

Depurition (n.) See Depuration.

Deputable (a.) Fit to be deputed; suitable to act as a deputy.

Deputation (n.) The act of deputing, or of appointing or commissioning a deputy or representative; office of a deputy or delegate; vicegerency.

Deputation (n.) The person or persons deputed or commissioned by another person, party, or public body to act in his or its behalf; delegation; as, the general sent a deputation to the enemy to propose a truce.

Deputator (n.) One who deputes, or makes a deputation.

Deputed (imp. & p. p.) of Depute

Deputing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depute

Depute (v. t.) To appoint as deputy or agent; to commission to act in one's place; to delegate.

Depute (v. t.) To appoint; to assign; to choose.

Depute (n.) A person deputed; a deputy.

Deputize (v. t.) To appoint as one's deputy; to empower to act in one's stead; to depute.

Deputies (pl. ) of Deputy

Deputy (n.) One appointed as the substitute of another, and empowered to act for him, in his name or his behalf; a substitute in office; a lieutenant; a representative; a delegate; a vicegerent; as, the deputy of a prince, of a sheriff, of a township, etc.

Deputy (n.) A member of the Chamber of Deputies.

Dequantitate (v. t.) To diminish the quantity of; to disquantity.

Deracinated (imp. & p. p.) of Deracinate

Deracinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deracinate

Deracinate (v. t.) To pluck up by the roots; to extirpate.

Deraination (n.) The act of pulling up by the roots; eradication.

Deraign (v. t.) Alt. of Derain

Derain (v. t.) To prove or to refute by proof; to clear (one's self).

Deraignment (n.) Alt. of Derainment

Derainment (n.) The act of deraigning.

Derainment (n.) The renunciation of religious or monastic vows.

Derailed (imp. & p. p.) of Derail

Derailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Derail

Derail (v. t.) To cause to run off from the rails of a railroad, as a locomotive.

Derailment (n.) The act of going off, or the state of being off, the rails of a railroad.

Deranged (imp. & p. p.) of Derange

Deranging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Derange

Derange (v. t.) To put out of place, order, or rank; to disturb the proper arrangement or order of; to throw into disorder, confusion, or embarrassment; to disorder; to disarrange; as, to derange the plans of a commander, or the affairs of a nation.

Derange (v. t.) To disturb in action or function, as a part or organ, or the whole of a machine or organism.

Derange (v. t.) To disturb in the orderly or normal action of the intellect; to render insane.

Deranged (a.) Disordered; especially, disordered in mind; crazy; insane.

Derangement (n.) The act of deranging or putting out of order, or the state of being deranged; disarrangement; disorder; confusion; especially, mental disorder; insanity.

Deranger (n.) One who deranges.

Deray (n.) Disorder; merriment.

Derbio (n.) A large European food fish (Lichia glauca).

Derby (n.) A race for three-old horses, run annually at Epsom (near London), for the Derby stakes. It was instituted by the 12th Earl of Derby, in 1780.

Derby (n.) A stiff felt hat with a dome-shaped crown.

Derbyshire spar () A massive variety of fluor spar, found in Derbyshire, England, and wrought into vases and other ornamental work.

Derdoing (v. t.) Doing daring or chivalrous deeds.

Dere (v. t.) To hurt; to harm; to injure.

Dere (n.) Harm.

Dereine (v. t.) Alt. of Dereyne

Dereyne (v. t.) Same as Darraign.

Derelict (a.) Given up or forsaken by the natural owner or guardian; left and abandoned; as, derelict lands.

Derelict (a.) Lost; adrift; hence, wanting; careless; neglectful; unfaithful.

Derelict (n.) A thing voluntary abandoned or willfully cast away by its proper owner, especially a ship abandoned at sea.

Derelict (n.) A tract of land left dry by the sea, and fit for cultivation or use.

Dereliction (n.) The act of leaving with an intention not to reclaim or resume; an utter forsaking abandonment.

Dereliction (n.) A neglect or omission as if by willful abandonment.

Dereliction (n.) The state of being left or abandoned.

Dereliction (n.) A retiring of the sea, occasioning a change of high-water mark, whereby land is gained.

Dereligionize (v. t.) To make irreligious; to turn from religion.

Dereling (n.) Darling.

Dereling (n.) Darling.

Derf (a.) Strong; powerful; fierce.

Derided (imp. & p. p.) of Deride

Deriding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deride

Deride (v. t.) To laugh at with contempt; to laugh to scorn; to turn to ridicule or make sport of; to mock; to scoff at.

Derider (n.) One who derides, or laughs at, another in contempt; a mocker; a scoffer.

Deridingly (adv.) By way of derision or mockery.

Derision (n.) The act of deriding, or the state of being derided; mockery; scornful or contemptuous treatment which holds one up to ridicule.

Derision (n.) An object of derision or scorn; a laughing-stock.

Derisive (a.) Expressing, serving for, or characterized by, derision.

Derisory (a.) Derisive; mocking.

Derivable (a.) That can be derived; obtainable by transmission; capable of being known by inference, as from premises or data; capable of being traced, as from a radical; as, income is derivable from various sources.

Derivably (adv.) By derivation.

Derival (n.) Derivation.

Derivate (a.) Derived; derivative.

Derivate (n.) A thing derived; a derivative.

Derivate (v. t.) To derive.

Derivation (n.) A leading or drawing off of water from a stream or source.

Derivation (n.) The act of receiving anything from a source; the act of procuring an effect from a cause, means, or condition, as profits from capital, conclusions or opinions from evidence.

Derivation (n.) The act of tracing origin or descent, as in grammar or genealogy; as, the derivation of a word from an Aryan root.

Derivation (n.) The state or method of being derived; the relation of origin when established or asserted.

Derivation (n.) That from which a thing is derived.

Derivation (n.) That which is derived; a derivative; a deduction.

Derivation (n.) The operation of deducing one function from another according to some fixed law, called the law of derivation, as the of differentiation or of integration.

Derivation (n.) A drawing of humors or fluids from one part of the body to another, to relieve or lessen a morbid process.

Derivational (a.) Relating to derivation.

Derivative (a.) Obtained by derivation; derived; not radical, original, or fundamental; originating, deduced, or formed from something else; secondary; as, a derivative conveyance; a derivative word.

Derivative (n.) That which is derived; anything obtained or deduced from another.

Derivative (n.) A word formed from another word, by a prefix or suffix, an internal modification, or some other change; a word which takes its origin from a root.

Derivative (n.) A chord, not fundamental, but obtained from another by inversion; or, vice versa, a ground tone or root implied in its harmonics in an actual chord.

Derivative (n.) An agent which is adapted to produce a derivation (in the medical sense).

Derivative (n.) A derived function; a function obtained from a given function by a certain algebraic process.

Derivative (n.) A substance so related to another substance by modification or partial substitution as to be regarded as derived from it; thus, the amido compounds are derivatives of ammonia, and the hydrocarbons are derivatives of methane, benzene, etc.

Derived (imp. & p. p.) of Derive

Deriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Derive

Derive (v. t.) To turn the course of, as water; to divert and distribute into subordinate channels; to diffuse; to communicate; to transmit; -- followed by to, into, on, upon.

Derive (v. t.) To receive, as from a source or origin; to obtain by descent or by transmission; to draw; to deduce; -- followed by from.

Derive (v. t.) To trace the origin, descent, or derivation of; to recognize transmission of; as, he derives this word from the Anglo-Saxon.

Derive (v. t.) To obtain one substance from another by actual or theoretical substitution; as, to derive an organic acid from its corresponding hydrocarbon.

Derive (v. i.) To flow; to have origin; to descend; to proceed; to be deduced.

Derivement (n.) That which is derived; deduction; inference.

Deriver (n.) One who derives.

Derk (a.) Dark.

-derm (n.) A suffix or terminal formative, much used in anatomical terms, and signifying skin, integument, covering; as, blastoderm, ectoderm, etc.

Derm (v. t.) The integument of animal; the skin.

Derm (v. t.) See Dermis.

Derma (n.) See Dermis.

Dermal (a.) Pertaining to the integument or skin of animals; dermic; as, the dermal secretions.

Dermal (a.) Pertaining to the dermis or true skin.

Dermaptera (n.) Alt. of Dermapteran

Dermapteran (n.) See Dermoptera, Dermopteran.

Dermatic (a.) Alt. of Dermatine

Dermatine (a.) Of or pertaining to the skin.

Dermatitis (n.) Inflammation of the skin.

Dermatogen (n.) Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a forming condition.

Dermatogen (n.) Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a forming condition.

Dermatography (n.) An anatomical description of, or treatise on, the skin.

Dermatoid (a.) Resembling skin; skinlike.

Dermatologist (n.) One who discourses on the skin and its diseases; one versed in dermatology.

Dermatology (n.) The science which treats of the skin, its structure, functions, and diseases.

Dermatopathic (a.) Of or pertaining to skin diseases, or their cure.

Dermatophyte (n.) A vegetable parasite, infesting the skin.

Dermestes (n.) A genus of coleopterous insects, the larvae of which feed animal substances. They are very destructive to dries meats, skins, woolens, and furs. The most common species is D. lardarius, known as the bacon beetle.

Dermestoid (a.) Pertaining to or resembling the genus Dermestes.

Dermic (a.) Relating to the derm or skin.

Dermic (a.) Pertaining to the dermis; dermal.

Dermis (n.) The deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin or epidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, and enderon. See Skin, and Illust. in Appendix.

Dermobranchiata (n. pl.) A group of nudibranch mollusks without special gills.

Dermobranchiate (a.) Having the skin modified to serve as a gill.

Dermohaemal (a.) Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and haemal structures; as, the dermohaemal spines or ventral fin rays of fishes.

Dermoid (a.) Same as Dermatoid.

Dermoneural (a.) Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and neural structures; as, the dermoneural spines or dorsal fin rays of fishes.

Dermopathic (a.) Dermatopathic.

Dermophyte (n.) A dermatophyte.

Dermoptera (n. pl.) The division of insects which includes the earwigs (Forticulidae).

Dermoptera (n. pl.) A group of lemuroid mammals having a parachutelike web of skin between the fore and hind legs, of which the colugo (Galeopithecus) is the type. See Colugo.

Dermoptera (n. pl.) An order of Mammalia; the Cheiroptera.

Dermopteran (n.) An insect which has the anterior pair of wings coriaceous, and does not use them in flight, as the earwig.

Dermopteri (n. pl.) Same as Dermopterygii.

Dermopterygii (n. pl.) A group of fishlike animals including the Marsipobranchiata and Leptocardia.

Dermoskeleton (n.) See Exoskeleton.

Dermostosis (n.) Ossification of the dermis.

Dern (n.) A gatepost or doorpost.

Dern (a.) Hidden; concealed; secret.

Dern (a.) Solitary; sad.

Derne (a.) To hide; to skulk.

Dernful (a.) Secret; hence, lonely; sad; mournful.

Dernier (a.) Last; final.

Dernly (adv.) Secretly; grievously; mournfully.

Derogant (a.) Derogatory.

Derogated (imp. & p. p.) of Derogate

Derogating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Derogate

Derogate (v. t.) To annul in part; to repeal partly; to restrict; to limit the action of; -- said of a law.

Derogate (v. t.) To lessen; to detract from; to disparage; to depreciate; -- said of a person or thing.

Derogate (v. i.) To take away; to detract; to withdraw; -- usually with from.

Derogate (v. i.) To act beneath one-s rank, place, birth, or character; to degenerate.

Derogate (n.) Diminished in value; dishonored; degraded.

Derogately (adv.) In a derogatory manner.

Derogation (n.) The act of derogating, partly repealing, or lessening in value; disparagement; detraction; depreciation; -- followed by of, from, or to.

Derogation (n.) An alteration of, or subtraction from, a contract for a sale of stocks.

Derogative (a.) Derogatory.

Derogator (n.) A detractor.

Derogatorily (adv.) In a derogatory manner; disparagingly.

Derogatoriness (n.) Quality of being derogatory.

Derogatory (a.) Tending to derogate, or lessen in value; expressing derogation; detracting; injurious; -- with from to, or unto.

Derotremata (n. pl.) The tribe of aquatic Amphibia which includes Amphiuma, Menopoma, etc. They have permanent gill openings, but no external gills; -- called also Cryptobranchiata.

Derre (a.) Dearer.

Derrick (n.) A mast, spar, or tall frame, supported at the top by stays or guys, with suitable tackle for hoisting heavy weights, as stones in building.

Derring (a.) Daring or warlike.

Derringer (n.) A kind of short-barreled pocket pistol, of very large caliber, often carrying a half-ounce ball.

Derth (n.) Dearth; scarcity.

Dertrotheca (n.) The horny covering of the end of the bill of birds.

Dervish (n.) Alt. of Dervis

Dervise (n.) Alt. of Dervis

Dervis (n.) A Turkish or Persian monk, especially one who professes extreme poverty and leads an austere life.

Derworth (a.) Precious.

Descant (v. i.) Originally, a double song; a melody or counterpoint sung above the plain song of the tenor; a variation of an air; a variation by ornament of the main subject or plain song.

Descant (v. i.) The upper voice in part music.

Descant (v. i.) The canto, cantus, or soprano voice; the treble.

Descant (v. i.) A discourse formed on its theme, like variations on a musical air; a comment or comments.

Descanted (imp. & p. p.) of Descant

Descanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Descant

Descant (v. i.) To sing a variation or accomplishment.

Descant (v. i.) To comment freely; to discourse with fullness and particularity; to discourse at large.

Descanter (n.) One who descants.

Descended (imp. & p. p.) of Descend

Descending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Descend

Descend (v. i.) To pass from a higher to a lower place; to move downwards; to come or go down in any way, as by falling, flowing, walking, etc.; to plunge; to fall; to incline downward; -- the opposite of ascend.

Descend (v. i.) To enter mentally; to retire.

Descend (v. i.) To make an attack, or incursion, as if from a vantage ground; to come suddenly and with violence; -- with on or upon.

Descend (v. i.) To come down to a lower, less fortunate, humbler, less virtuous, or worse, state or station; to lower or abase one's self; as, he descended from his high estate.

Descend (v. i.) To pass from the more general or important to the particular or less important matters to be considered.

Descend (v. i.) To come down, as from a source, original, or stock; to be derived; to proceed by generation or by transmission; to fall or pass by inheritance; as, the beggar may descend from a prince; a crown descends to the heir.

Descend (v. i.) To move toward the south, or to the southward.

Descend (v. i.) To fall in pitch; to pass from a higher to a lower tone.

Descend (v. t.) To go down upon or along; to pass from a higher to a lower part of; as, they descended the river in boats; to descend a ladder.

Descendant (a.) Descendent.

Descendant (n.) One who descends, as offspring, however remotely; -- correlative to ancestor or ascendant.

Descendent (a.) Descending; falling; proceeding from an ancestor or source.

Descender (n.) One who descends.

Descendibility (n.) The quality of being descendible; capability of being transmitted from ancestors; as, the descendibility of an estate.

Descendible (a.) Admitting descent; capable of being descended.

Descendible (a.) That may descend from an ancestor to an heir.

Descending (a.) Of or pertaining to descent; moving downwards.

Descendingly (adv.) In a descending manner.

Descension (n.) The act of going downward; descent; falling or sinking; declension; degradation.

Descensional (a.) Pertaining to descension.

Descensive (a.) Tending to descend; tending downwards; descending.

Descensory (n.) A vessel used in alchemy to extract oils.

Descent (n.) The act of descending, or passing downward; change of place from higher to lower.

Descent (n.) Incursion; sudden attack; especially, hostile invasion from sea; -- often followed by upon or on; as, to make a descent upon the enemy.

Descent (n.) Progress downward, as in station, virtue, as in station, virtue, and the like, from a higher to a lower state, from a higher to a lower state, from the more to the less important, from the better to the worse, etc.

Descent (n.) Derivation, as from an ancestor; procedure by generation; lineage; birth; extraction.

Descent (n.) Transmission of an estate by inheritance, usually, but not necessarily, in the descending line; title to inherit an estate by reason of consanguinity.

Descent (n.) Inclination downward; a descending way; inclined or sloping surface; declivity; slope; as, a steep descent.

Descent (n.) That which is descended; descendants; issue.

Descent (n.) A step or remove downward in any scale of gradation; a degree in the scale of genealogy; a generation.

Descent (n.) Lowest place; extreme downward place.

Descent (n.) A passing from a higher to a lower tone.

Describable (a.) That can be described; capable of description.

Described (imp. & p. p.) of Describe

Describing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Describe

Describe (v. t.) To represent by drawing; to draw a plan of; to delineate; to trace or mark out; as, to describe a circle by the compasses; a torch waved about the head in such a way as to describe a circle.

Describe (v. t.) To represent by words written or spoken; to give an account of; to make known to others by words or signs; as, the geographer describes countries and cities.

Describe (v. t.) To distribute into parts, groups, or classes; to mark off; to class.

Describe (v. i.) To use the faculty of describing; to give a description; as, Milton describes with uncommon force and beauty.

Describent (n.) Same as Generatrix.

Describer (n.) One who describes.

Descrier (n.) One who descries.

Description (n.) The act of describing; a delineation by marks or signs.

Description (n.) A sketch or account of anything in words; a portraiture or representation in language; an enumeration of the essential qualities of a thing or species.

Description (n.) A class to which a certain representation is applicable; kind; sort.

Descriptive (a.) Tending to describe; having the quality of representing; containing description; as, a descriptive figure; a descriptive phrase; a descriptive narration; a story descriptive of the age.

Descrive (v. t.) To describe.

Descried (imp. & p. p.) of Descry

Descrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Descry

Descry (v. t.) To spy out or discover by the eye, as objects distant or obscure; to espy; to recognize; to discern; to discover.

Descry (v. t.) To discover; to disclose; to reveal.

Descry (n.) Discovery or view, as of an army seen at a distance.

Desecate (v. t.) To cut, as with a scythe; to mow.

Desecrated (imp. & p. p.) of Desecrate

Desecrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desecrate

Desecrate (v. t.) To divest of a sacred character or office; to divert from a sacred purpose; to violate the sanctity of; to profane; to put to an unworthy use; -- the opposite of consecrate.

Desecrater (n.) One who desecrates; a profaner.

Desecration (n.) The act of desecrating; profanation; condition of anything desecrated.

Desecrator (n.) One who desecrates.

Desegmentation (n.) The loss or obliteration of division into segments; as, a desegmentation of the body.

Desert (n.) That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justly due; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward; merit.

Desert (n.) A deserted or forsaken region; a barren tract incapable of supporting population, as the vast sand plains of Asia and Africa are destitute and vegetation.

Desert (n.) A tract, which may be capable of sustaining a population, but has been left unoccupied and uncultivated; a wilderness; a solitary place.

Desert (a.) Of or pertaining to a desert; forsaken; without life or cultivation; unproductive; waste; barren; wild; desolate; solitary; as, they landed on a desert island.

Deserted (imp. & p. p.) of Desert

Deserting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desert

Desert (v. t.) To leave (especially something which one should stay by and support); to leave in the lurch; to abandon; to forsake; -- implying blame, except sometimes when used of localities; as, to desert a friend, a principle, a cause, one's country.

Desert (v. t.) To abandon (the service) without leave; to forsake in violation of duty; to abscond from; as, to desert the army; to desert one's colors.

Desert (v. i.) To abandon a service without leave; to quit military service without permission, before the expiration of one's term; to abscond.

Deserter (n.) One who forsakes a duty, a cause or a party, a friend, or any one to whom he owes service; especially, a soldier or a seaman who abandons the service without leave; one guilty of desertion.

Desertful (a.) Meritorious.

Desertion (n.) The act of deserting or forsaking; abandonment of a service, a cause, a party, a friend, or any post of duty; the quitting of one's duties willfully and without right; esp., an absconding from military or naval service.

Desertion (n.) The state of being forsaken; desolation; as, the king in his desertion.

Desertion (n.) Abandonment by God; spiritual despondency.

Desertless (a.) Without desert.

Desertlessly (adv.) Undeservedly.

Desertness (n.) A deserted condition.

Desertrix (n.) Alt. of Desertrice

Desertrice (n.) A feminine deserter.

Deserved (imp. & p. p.) of Deserve

Deserving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deserve

Deserve (v. t.) To earn by service; to be worthy of (something due, either good or evil); to merit; to be entitled to; as, the laborer deserves his wages; a work of value deserves praise.

Deserve (v. t.) To serve; to treat; to benefit.

Deserve (v. i.) To be worthy of recompense; -- usually with ill or with well.

Deservedly (adv.) According to desert (whether good or evil); justly.

Deservedness (n.) Meritoriousness.

Deserver (n.) One who deserves.

Deserving (n.) Desert; merit.

Deserving (a.) Meritorious; worthy; as, a deserving person or act.

Deshabille (n.) An undress; a careless toilet.

Desiccant (a.) Drying; desiccative.

Desiccant (n.) A medicine or application for drying up a sore.

Desiccated (imp. & p. p.) of Desiccate

Desiccating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desiccate

Desiccate (v. t.) To dry up; to deprive or exhaust of moisture; to preserve by drying; as, to desiccate fish or fruit.

Desiccate (v. i.) To become dry.

Desiccation (n.) The act of desiccating, or the state of being desiccated.

Desiccative (a.) Drying; tending to dry.

Desiccative (n.) An application for drying up secretions.

Desiccator (n.) One who, or that which, desiccates.

Desiccator (n.) A short glass jar fitted with an air-tight cover, and containing some desiccating agent, as sulphuric acid or calcium chloride, above which is suspended the material to be dried, or preserved from moisture.

Desiccatory (a.) Desiccative.

Desiderable (a.) Desirable.

Desiderata (n. pl.) See Desideratum.

Desiderated (imp. & p. p.) of Desiderate

Desiderating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desiderate

Desiderate (v. t.) To desire; to feel the want of; to lack; to miss; to want.

Desideration (n.) Act of desiderating; also, the thing desired.

Desiderative (a.) Denoting desire; as, desiderative verbs.

Desiderative (n.) An object of desire.

Desiderative (n.) A verb formed from another verb by a change of termination, and expressing the desire of doing that which is indicated by the primitive verb.

Desiderata (pl. ) of Desideratum

Desideratum (n.) Anything desired; that of which the lack is felt; a want generally felt and acknowledge.

Desidiose (a.) Alt. of Desidious

Desidious (a.) Idle; lazy.

Desidiousness (n.) The state or quality of being desidiose, or indolent.

Desight (n.) An unsightly object.

Desightment (n.) The act of making unsightly; disfigurement.

Designed (imp. & p. p.) of Design

Designing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Design

Design (n.) To draw preliminary outline or main features of; to sketch for a pattern or model; to delineate; to trace out; to draw.

Design (n.) To mark out and exhibit; to designate; to indicate; to show; to point out; to appoint.

Design (n.) To create or produce, as a work of art; to form a plan or scheme of; to form in idea; to invent; to project; to lay out in the mind; as, a man designs an essay, a poem, a statue, or a cathedral.

Design (n.) To intend or purpose; -- usually with for before the remote object, but sometimes with to.

Design (v. i.) To form a design or designs; to plan.

Design (n.) A preliminary sketch; an outline or pattern of the main features of something to be executed, as of a picture, a building, or a decoration; a delineation; a plan.

Design (n.) A plan or scheme formed in the mind of something to be done; preliminary conception; idea intended to be expressed in a visible form or carried into action; intention; purpose; -- often used in a bad sense for evil intention or purpose; scheme; plot.

Design (n.) Specifically, intention or purpose as revealed or inferred from the adaptation of means to an end; as, the argument from design.

Design (n.) The realization of an inventive or decorative plan; esp., a work of decorative art considered as a new creation; conception or plan shown in completed work; as, this carved panel is a fine design, or of a fine design.

Design (n.) The invention and conduct of the subject; the disposition of every part, and the general order of the whole.

Designable (a.) Capable of being designated or distinctly marked out; distinguishable.

Designate (v. t.) Designated; appointed; chosen.

Designated (imp. & p. p.) of Designate

Designating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Designate

Designate (v. t.) To mark out and make known; to point out; to name; to indicate; to show; to distinguish by marks or description; to specify; as, to designate the boundaries of a country; to designate the rioters who are to be arrested.

Designate (v. t.) To call by a distinctive title; to name.

Designate (v. t.) To indicate or set apart for a purpose or duty; -- with to or for; to designate an officer for or to the command of a post or station.

Designation (n.) The act of designating; a pointing out or showing; indication.

Designation (n.) Selection and appointment for a purpose; allotment; direction.

Designation (n.) That which designates; a distinguishing mark or name; distinctive title; appellation.

Designation (n.) Use or application; import; intention; signification, as of a word or phrase.

Designative (a.) Serving to designate or indicate; pointing out.

Designator (n.) An officer who assigned to each his rank and place in public shows and ceremonies.

Designator (n.) One who designates.

Designatory (a.) Serving to designate; designative; indicating.

Designedly (adv.) By design; purposely; intentionally; -- opposed to accidentally, ignorantly, or inadvertently.

Designer (n.) One who designs, marks out, or plans; a contriver.

Designer (n.) One who produces or creates original works of art or decoration.

Designer (n.) A plotter; a schemer; -- used in a bad sense.

Designful (a.) Full of design; scheming.

Designing (a.) Intriguing; artful; scheming; as, a designing man.

Designing (n.) The act of making designs or sketches; the act of forming designs or plans.

Designless (a.) Without design.

Designment (n.) Delineation; sketch; design; ideal; invention.

Designment (n.) Design; purpose; scheme.

Desilver (v. t.) To deprive of silver; as, to desilver lead.

Desilverization (n.) The act or the process of freeing from silver; also, the condition resulting from the removal of silver.

Desilverize (v. t.) To deprive, or free from, silver; to remove silver from.

Desinence (n.) Termination; ending.

Desinent (a.) Ending; forming an end; lowermost.

Desinential (a.) Terminal.

Desipient (a.) Foolish; silly; trifling.

Desirability (n.) The state or quality of being desirable; desirableness.

Desirable (v. t.) Worthy of desire or longing; fitted to excite desire or a wish to possess; pleasing; agreeable.

Desirableness (n.) The quality of being desirable.

Desirably (adv.) In a desirable manner.

Desired (imp. & p. p.) of Desire

Desiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desire

Desire (v. t.) To long for; to wish for earnestly; to covet.

Desire (v. t.) To express a wish for; to entreat; to request.

Desire (v. t.) To require; to demand; to claim.

Desire (v. t.) To miss; to regret.

Desire (v. t.) The natural longing that is excited by the enjoyment or the thought of any good, and impels to action or effort its continuance or possession; an eager wish to obtain or enjoy.

Desire (v. t.) An expressed wish; a request; petition.

Desire (v. t.) Anything which is desired; an object of longing.

Desire (v. t.) Excessive or morbid longing; lust; appetite.

Desire (v. t.) Grief; regret.

Desireful (a.) Filled with desire; eager.

Desirefulness (n.) The state of being desireful; eagerness to obtain and possess.

Desireless (a.) Free from desire.

Desirer (n.) One who desires, asks, or wishes.

Desirous (n.) Feeling desire; eagerly wishing; solicitous; eager to obtain; covetous.

Desirously (adv.) With desire; eagerly.

Desirousness (n.) The state of being desirous.

Desisted (imp. & p. p.) of Desist

Desisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desist

Desist (v. i.) To cease to proceed or act; to stop; to forbear; -- often with from.

Desistance (n.) The act or state of desisting; cessation.

Desistive (a.) Final; conclusive; ending.

Desition (n.) An end or ending.

Desitive (a.) Final; serving to complete; conclusive.

Desitive (n.) A proposition relating to or expressing an end or conclusion.

Desk (n.) A table, frame, or case, usually with sloping top, but often with flat top, for the use writers and readers. It often has a drawer or repository underneath.

Desk (n.) A reading table or lectern to support the book from which the liturgical service is read, differing from the pulpit from which the sermon is preached; also (esp. in the United States), a pulpit. Hence, used symbolically for the clerical profession.

Desked (imp. & p. p.) of Desk

Desking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desk

Desk (v. t.) To shut up, as in a desk; to treasure.

Deskwork (n.) Work done at a desk, as by a clerk or writer.

Desman (n.) An amphibious, insectivorous mammal found in Russia (Myogale moschata). It is allied to the moles, but is called muskrat by some English writers.

Desmid (n.) Alt. of Desmidian

Desmidian (n.) A microscopic plant of the family Desmidiae, a group of unicellular algae in which the species have a greenish color, and the cells generally appear as if they consisted of two coalescing halves.

Desmine (n.) Same as Stilbite. It commonly occurs in bundles or tufts of crystals.

Desmobacteria (n. pl.) See Microbacteria.

Desmodont (n.) A member of a group of South American blood-sucking bats, of the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire.

Desmognathous (a.) Having the maxillo-palatine bones united; -- applied to a group of carinate birds (Desmognathae), including various wading and swimming birds, as the ducks and herons, and also raptorial and other kinds.

Desmoid (a.) Resembling, or having the characteristics of, a ligament; ligamentous.

Desmology (n.) The science which treats of the ligaments.

Desmomyaria (n. pl.) The division of Tunicata which includes the Salpae. See Salpa.

Desolate (a.) Destitute or deprived of inhabitants; deserted; uninhabited; hence, gloomy; as, a desolate isle; a desolate wilderness; a desolate house.

Desolate (a.) Laid waste; in a ruinous condition; neglected; destroyed; as, desolate altars.

Desolate (a.) Left alone; forsaken; lonely; comfortless.

Desolate (a.) Lost to shame; dissolute.

Desolate (a.) Destitute of; lacking in.

Desolated (imp. & p. p.) of Desolate

Desolating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desolate

Desolate (v. t.) To make desolate; to leave alone; to deprive of inhabitants; as, the earth was nearly desolated by the flood.

Desolate (v. t.) To lay waste; to ruin; to ravage; as, a fire desolates a city.

Desolately (adv.) In a desolate manner.

Desolateness (n.) The state of being desolate.

Desolater (n.) One who, or that which, desolates or lays waste.

Desolation (n.) The act of desolating or laying waste; destruction of inhabitants; depopulation.

Desolation (n.) The state of being desolated or laid waste; ruin; solitariness; destitution; gloominess.

Desolation (n.) A place or country wasted and forsaken.

Desolator (n.) Same as Desolater.

Desolatory (a.) Causing desolation.

Desophisticate (v. t.) To clear from sophism or error.

Desoxalic (a.) Made or derived from oxalic acid; as, desoxalic acid.

Despaired (imp. & p. p.) of Despair

Despairing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despair

Despair (v. i.) To be hopeless; to have no hope; to give up all hope or expectation; -- often with of.

Despair (v. t.) To give up as beyond hope or expectation; to despair of.

Despair (v. t.) To cause to despair.

Despair (n.) Loss of hope; utter hopelessness; complete despondency.

Despair (n.) That which is despaired of.

Despairer (n.) One who despairs.

Despairful (a.) Hopeless.

Despairing (a.) Feeling or expressing despair; hopeless.

Desparple (v. t. & i.) To scatter; to disparkle.

Despatch (n. & v.) Same as Dispatch.

Despecificate (v. t.) To discriminate; to separate according to specific signification or qualities; to specificate; to desynonymize.

Despecfication (n.) Discrimination.

Despect (n.) Contempt.

Despection (n.) A looking down; a despising.

Despeed (v. t.) To send hastily.

Despend (v. t.) To spend; to squander. See Dispend.

Desperadoes (pl. ) of Desperado

Desperado (n.) A reckless, furious man; a person urged by furious passions, and regardless of consequence; a wild ruffian.

Desperate (a.) Without hope; given to despair; hopeless.

Desperate (a.) Beyond hope; causing despair; extremely perilous; irretrievable; past cure, or, at least, extremely dangerous; as, a desperate disease; desperate fortune.

Desperate (a.) Proceeding from, or suggested by, despair; without regard to danger or safety; reckless; furious; as, a desperate effort.

Desperate (a.) Extreme, in a bad sense; outrageous; -- used to mark the extreme predominance of a bad quality.

Desperate (n.) One desperate or hopeless.

Desperately (adv.) In a desperate manner; without regard to danger or safety; recklessly; extremely; as, the troops fought desperately.

Desperateness (n.) Desperation; virulence.

Desperation (n.) The act of despairing or becoming desperate; a giving up of hope.

Desperation (n.) A state of despair, or utter hopeless; abandonment of hope; extreme recklessness; reckless fury.

Despicability (n.) Despicableness.

Despicable (a.) Fit or deserving to be despised; contemptible; mean; vile; worthless; as, a despicable man; despicable company; a despicable gift.

Despicableness (n.) The quality of being despicable; meanness; vileness; worthlessness.

Despicably (adv.) In a despicable or mean manner; contemptibly; as, despicably stingy.

Despiciency (n.) A looking down; despection.

Despisable (a.) Despicable; contemptible.

Despisal (n.) A despising; contempt.

Despised (imp. & p. p.) of Despise

Despising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despise

Despise (v. t.) To look down upon with disfavor or contempt; to contemn; to scorn; to disdain; to have a low opinion or contemptuous dislike of.

Despisedness (n.) The state of being despised.

Despisement (n.) A despising.

Despiser (n.) One who despises; a contemner; a scorner.

Despisingly (adv.) Contemptuously.

Despite (n.) Malice; malignity; spite; malicious anger; contemptuous hate.

Despite (n.) An act of malice, hatred, or defiance; contemptuous defiance; a deed of contempt.

Despited (imp. & p. p.) of Despite

Despiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despite

Despite (n.) To vex; to annoy; to offend contemptuously.

Despite (prep.) In spite of; against, or in defiance of; notwithstanding; as, despite his prejudices.

Despiteful (a.) Full of despite; expressing malice or contemptuous hate; malicious.

Despiteous (a.) Feeling or showing despite; malicious; angry to excess; cruel; contemptuous.

Despiteously (adv.) Despitefully.

Despitous (a.) Despiteous; very angry; cruel.

Despoiled (imp. & p. p.) of Despoil

Despoiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despoil

Despoil (v. t.) To strip, as of clothing; to divest or unclothe.

Despoil (v. t.) To deprive for spoil; to plunder; to rob; to pillage; to strip; to divest; -- usually followed by of.

Despoil (n.) Spoil.

Despoiler (n.) One who despoils.

Despoilment (n.) Despoliation.

Despoliation (n.) A stripping or plundering; spoliation.

Desponded (imp. & p. p.) of Despond

Desponding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despond

Despond (v. i.) To give up, the will, courage, or spirit; to be thoroughly disheartened; to lose all courage; to become dispirited or depressed; to take an unhopeful view.

Despond (n.) Despondency.

Despondence (n.) Despondency.

Despondency (n.) The state of desponding; loss of hope and cessation of effort; discouragement; depression or dejection of the mind.

Despondent (a.) Marked by despondence; given to despondence; low-spirited; as, a despondent manner; a despondent prisoner.

Desponder (n.) One who desponds.

Despondingly (adv.) In a desponding manner.

Desponsage (n.) Betrothal.

Desponsate (v. t.) To betroth.

Desponsation (n.) A betrothing; betrothal.

Desponsories (pl. ) of Desponsory

Desponsory (n.) A written pledge of marriage.

Desport (v. t. & i.) See Disport.

Despot (n.) A master; a lord; especially, an absolute or irresponsible ruler or sovereign.

Despot (n.) One who rules regardless of a constitution or laws; a tyrant.

Despotat (n.) The station or government of a despot; also, the domain of a despot.

Despotic (a.) Alt. of Despotical

Despotical (a.) Having the character of, or pertaining to, a despot; absolute in power; possessing and abusing unlimited power; evincing despotism; tyrannical; arbitrary.

Despotism (n.) The power, spirit, or principles of a despot; absolute control over others; tyrannical sway; tyranny.

Despotism (n.) A government which is directed by a despot; a despotic monarchy; absolutism; autocracy.

Despotist (n.) A supporter of despotism.

Despotize (v. t.) To act the despot.

Despread (v. t. & i.) See Dispread.

Despumated (imp. & p. p.) of Despumate

Despumating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despumate

Despumate (v. t. & i.) To throw off impurities in spume; to work off in foam or scum; to foam.

Despumation (n.) The act of throwing up froth or scum; separation of the scum or impurities from liquids; scumming; clarification.

Despume (v. t.) To free from spume or scum.

Desquamate (v. i.) To peel off in the form of scales; to scale off, as the skin in certain diseases.

Desquamation (n.) The separation or shedding of the cuticle or epidermis in the form of flakes or scales; exfoliation, as of bones.

Desquamative (a.) Alt. of Desquamatory

Desquamatory (a.) Of, pertaining to, or attended with, desquamation.

Desquamatory (n.) An instrument formerly used in removing the laminae of exfoliated bones.

Dess (n.) Dais.

Dessert (n.) A service of pastry, fruits, or sweetmeats, at the close of a feast or entertainment; pastry, fruits, etc., forming the last course at dinner.

Destemper (n.) A kind of painting. See Distemper.

Destin (n.) Destiny.

Destinable (a.) Determined by destiny; fated.

Destinably (adv.) In a destinable manner.

Destinal (a.) Determined by destiny; fated.

Destinate (a.) Destined.

Destinate (v. t.) To destine, design, or choose.

Destination (n.) The act of destining or appointing.

Destination (n.) Purpose for which anything is destined; predetermined end, object, or use; ultimate design.

Destination (n.) The place set for the end of a journey, or to which something is sent; place or point aimed at.

Destined (imp. & p. p.) of Destine

Destining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Destine

Destine (v. t.) To determine the future condition or application of; to set apart by design for a future use or purpose; to fix, as by destiny or by an authoritative decree; to doom; to ordain or preordain; to appoint; -- often with the remoter object preceded by to or for.

Destinist (n.) A believer in destiny; a fatalist.

Destinies (pl. ) of Destiny

Destiny (n.) That to which any person or thing is destined; predetermined state; condition foreordained by the Divine or by human will; fate; lot; doom.

Destiny (n.) The fixed order of things; invincible necessity; fate; a resistless power or agency conceived of as determining the future, whether in general or of an individual.

Destituent (a.) Deficient; wanting; as, a destituent condition.

Destitute (a.) Forsaken; not having in possession (something necessary, or desirable); deficient; lacking; devoid; -- often followed by of.

Destitute (a.) Not possessing the necessaries of life; in a condition of want; needy; without possessions or resources; very poor.

Destitute (v. t.) To leave destitute; to forsake; to abandon.

Destitute (v. t.) To make destitute; to cause to be in want; to deprive; -- followed by of.

Destitute (v. t.) To disappoint.

Destitutely (adv.) In destitution.

Destituteness (n.) Destitution.

Destitution (n.) The state of being deprived of anything; the state or condition of being destitute, needy, or without resources; deficiency; lack; extreme poverty; utter want; as, the inundation caused general destitution.

Destrer (n.) Alt. of Dextrer

Dextrer (n.) A war horse.

Destrie (v. t.) To destroy.

Destroyed (imp. & p. p.) of Destroy

Destroying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Destroy

Destroy (v. t.) To unbuild; to pull or tear down; to separate virulently into its constituent parts; to break up the structure and organic existence of; to demolish.

Destroy (v. t.) To ruin; to bring to naught; to put an end to; to annihilate; to consume.

Destroy (v. t.) To put an end to the existence, prosperity, or beauty of; to kill.

Destroyable (a.) Destructible.

Destroyer (n.) One who destroys, ruins, kills, or desolates.

Destruct (v. t.) To destroy.

Destructibility (n.) The quality of being capable of destruction; destructibleness.

Destructible (a.) Liable to destruction; capable of being destroyed.

Destructibleness (n.) The quality of being destructible.

Destruction (n.) The act of destroying; a tearing down; a bringing to naught; subversion; demolition; ruin; slaying; devastation.

Destruction (n.) The state of being destroyed, demolished, ruined, slain, or devastated.

Destruction (n.) A destroying agency; a cause of ruin or of devastation; a destroyer.

Destructionist (n.) One who delights in destroying that which is valuable; one whose principles and influence tend to destroy existing institutions; a destructive.

Destructionist (n.) One who believes in the final destruction or complete annihilation of the wicked; -- called also annihilationist.

Destructive (a.) Causing destruction; tending to bring about ruin, death, or devastation; ruinous; fatal; productive of serious evil; mischievous; pernicious; -- often with of or to; as, intemperance is destructive of health; evil examples are destructive to the morals of youth.

Destructive (n.) One who destroys; a radical reformer; a destructionist.

Destructively (adv.) In a destructive manner.

Destructiveness (n.) The quality of destroying or ruining.

Destructiveness (n.) The faculty supposed to impel to the commission of acts of destruction; propensity to destroy.

Destructor (n.) A destroyer.

Destruie (v. t.) To destroy.

Desudation (n.) A sweating; a profuse or morbid sweating, often succeeded by an eruption of small pimples.

Desuete (a.) Disused; out of use.

Desuetude (n.) The cessation of use; disuse; discontinuance of practice, custom, or fashion.

Desulphurated (imp. & p. p.) of Desulphurate

Desulphurating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desulphurate

Desulphurate (v. t.) To deprive of sulphur.

Desulphuration (n.) The act or process of depriving of sulphur.

Desulphurize (v. t.) To desulphurate; to deprive of sulphur.

Desultorily (adv.) In a desultory manner; without method; loosely; immethodically.

Desultoriness (n.) The quality of being desultory or without order or method; unconnectedness.

Desultorious (a.) Desultory.

Desultory (a.) Leaping or skipping about.

Desultory (a.) Jumping, or passing, from one thing or subject to another, without order or rational connection; without logical sequence; disconnected; immethodical; aimless; as, desultory minds.

Desultory (a.) Out of course; by the way; as a digression; not connected with the subject; as, a desultory remark.

Desume (v. t.) To select; to borrow.

Desynonymization (n.) The act of desynonymizing.

Desynonymize (v. t.) To deprive of synonymous character; to discriminate in use; -- applied to words which have been employed as synonyms.

Detached (imp. & p. p.) of Detach

Detaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detach

Detach (v. t.) To part; to separate or disunite; to disengage; -- the opposite of attach; as, to detach the coats of a bulbous root from each other; to detach a man from a leader or from a party.

Detach (v. t.) To separate for a special object or use; -- used especially in military language; as, to detach a ship from a fleet, or a company from a regiment.

Detach (v. i.) To push asunder; to come off or separate from anything; to disengage.

Detachable (a.) That can be detached.

Detached (a.) Separate; unconnected, or imperfectly connected; as, detached parcels.

Detachment (n.) The act of detaching or separating, or the state of being detached.

Detachment (n.) That which is detached; especially, a body of troops or part of a fleet sent from the main body on special service.

Detachment (n.) Abstraction from worldly objects; renunciation.

Detail (n.) A minute portion; one of the small parts; a particular; an item; -- used chiefly in the plural; as, the details of a scheme or transaction.

Detail (n.) A narrative which relates minute points; an account which dwells on particulars.

Detail (n.) The selection for a particular service of a person or a body of men; hence, the person or the body of men so selected.

Detailed (imp. & p. p.) of Detail

Detailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detail

Detail (n.) To relate in particulars; to particularize; to report minutely and distinctly; to enumerate; to specify; as, he detailed all the facts in due order.

Detail (n.) To tell off or appoint for a particular service, as an officer, a troop, or a squadron.

Detailer (n.) One who details.

Detained (imp. & p. p.) of Detain

Detaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detain

Detain (v. t.) To keep back or from; to withhold.

Detain (v. t.) To restrain from proceeding; to stay or stop; to delay; as, we were detained by an accident.

Detain (v. t.) To hold or keep in custody.

Detain (n.) Detention.

Detainder (n.) A writ. See Detinue.

Detainer (n.) One who detains.

Detainer (n.) The keeping possession of what belongs to another; detention of what is another's, even though the original taking may have been lawful. Forcible detainer is indictable at common law.

Detainer (n.) A writ authorizing the keeper of a prison to continue to keep a person in custody.

Detainment (n.) Detention.

Detect (a.) Detected.

Detected (imp. & p. p.) of Detect

Detecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detect

Detect (v. t.) To uncover; to discover; to find out; to bring to light; as, to detect a crime or a criminal; to detect a mistake in an account.

Detect (v. t.) To inform against; to accuse.

Detectable (a.) Alt. of Detectible

Detectible (a.) Capable of being detected or found out; as, parties not detectable.

Detecter (n.) One who, or that which, detects or brings to light; one who finds out what another attempts to conceal; a detector.

Detection (n.) The act of detecting; the laying open what was concealed or hidden; discovery; as, the detection of a thief; the detection of fraud, forgery, or a plot.

Detective (a.) Fitted for, or skilled in, detecting; employed in detecting crime or criminals; as, a detective officer.

Detective (n.) One who business it is so detect criminals or discover matters of secrecy.

Detector (n.) One who, or that which, detects; a detecter.

Detenebrate (v. t.) To remove darkness from.

Detent (n.) That which locks or unlocks a movement; a catch, pawl, or dog; especially, in clockwork, the catch which locks and unlocks the wheelwork in striking.

Detention (n.) The act of detaining or keeping back; a withholding.

Detention (n.) The state of being detained (stopped or hindered); delay from necessity.

Detention (n.) Confinement; restraint; custody.

Deterred (imp. & p. p.) of Deter

Deterring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deter

Deter (v. t.) To prevent by fear; hence, to hinder or prevent from action by fear of consequences, or difficulty, risk, etc.

Deterged (imp. & p. p.) of Deterge

Deterging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deterge

Deterge (v. t.) To cleanse; to purge away, as foul or offending matter from the body, or from an ulcer.

Detergency (n.) A cleansing quality or power.

Detergent (a.) Cleansing; purging.

Detergent (n.) A substance which cleanses the skin, as water or soap; a medicine to cleanse wounds, ulcers, etc.

Deteriorated (imp. & p. p.) of Deteriorate

Deteriorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deteriorate

Deteriorate (v. t.) To make worse; to make inferior in quality or value; to impair; as, to deteriorate the mind.

Deteriorate (v. i.) To grow worse; to be impaired in quality; to degenerate.

Deterioration (n.) The process of growing worse, or the state of having grown worse.

Deteriority (n.) Worse state or quality; inferiority.

Determent (n.) The act of deterring; also, that which deters.

Determinability (n.) The quality of being determinable; determinableness.

Determinable (v. t.) Capable of being determined, definitely ascertained, decided upon, or brought to a conclusion.

Determinableness (n.) Capability of being determined; determinability.

Determinacy (n.) Determinateness.

Determinant (a.) Serving to determine or limit; determinative.

Determinant (n.) That which serves to determine; that which causes determination.

Determinant (n.) The sum of a series of products of several numbers, these products being formed according to certain specified laws

Determinant (n.) A mark or attribute, attached to the subject or predicate, narrowing the extent of both, but rendering them more definite and precise.

Determinate (a.) Having defined limits; not uncertain or arbitrary; fixed; established; definite.

Determinate (a.) Conclusive; decisive; positive.

Determinate (a.) Determined or resolved upon.

Determinate (a.) Of determined purpose; resolute.

Determinate (v. t.) To bring to an end; to determine. See Determine.

Determinately (adv.) In a determinate manner; definitely; ascertainably.

Determinately (adv.) Resolutely; unchangeably.

Determinateness (n.) State of being determinate.

Determination (n.) The act of determining, or the state of being determined.

Determination (n.) Bringing to an end; termination; limit.

Determination (n.) Direction or tendency to a certain end; impulsion.

Determination (n.) The quality of mind which reaches definite conclusions; decision of character; resoluteness.

Determination (n.) The state of decision; a judicial decision, or ending of controversy.

Determination (n.) That which is determined upon; result of deliberation; purpose; conclusion formed; fixed resolution.

Determination (n.) A flow, rush, or tendency to a particular part; as, a determination of blood to the head.

Determination (n.) The act, process, or result of any accurate measurement, as of length, volume, weight, intensity, etc.; as, the determination of the ohm or of the wave length of light; the determination of the salt in sea water, or the oxygen in the air.

Determination (n.) The act of defining a concept or notion by giving its essential constituents.

Determination (n.) The addition of a differentia to a concept or notion, thus limiting its extent; -- the opposite of generalization.

Determination (n.) The act of determining the relations of an object, as regards genus and species; the referring of minerals, plants, or animals, to the species to which they belong; classification; as, I am indebted to a friend for the determination of most of these shells.

Determinative (a.) Having power to determine; limiting; shaping; directing; conclusive.

Determinative (n.) That which serves to determine.

Determinator (n.) One who determines.

Determined (imp. & p. p.) of Determine

Determining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Determine

Determine (v. t.) To fix the boundaries of; to mark off and separate.

Determine (v. t.) To set bounds to; to fix the determination of; to limit; to bound; to bring to an end; to finish.

Determine (v. t.) To fix the form or character of; to shape; to prescribe imperatively; to regulate; to settle.

Determine (v. t.) To fix the course of; to impel and direct; -- with a remoter object preceded by to; as, another's will determined me to this course.

Determine (v. t.) To ascertain definitely; to find out the specific character or name of; to assign to its true place in a system; as, to determine an unknown or a newly discovered plant or its name.

Determine (v. t.) To bring to a conclusion, as a question or controversy; to settle authoritative or judicial sentence; to decide; as, the court has determined the cause.

Determine (v. t.) To resolve on; to have a fixed intention of; also, to cause to come to a conclusion or decision; to lead; as, this determined him to go immediately.

Determine (v. t.) To define or limit by adding a differentia.

Determine (v. t.) To ascertain the presence, quantity, or amount of; as, to determine the parallax; to determine the salt in sea water.

Determine (v. i.) To come to an end; to end; to terminate.

Determine (v. i.) To come to a decision; to decide; to resolve; -- often with on.

Determined (a.) Decided; resolute.

Determinedly (adv.) In a determined manner; with determination.

Determiner (n.) One who, or that which, determines or decides.

Determinism (n.) The doctrine that the will is not free, but is inevitably and invincibly determined by motives.

Determinist (n.) One who believes in determinism. Also adj.; as, determinist theories.

Deterration (n.) The uncovering of anything buried or covered with earth; a taking out of the earth or ground.

Deterrence (n.) That which deters; a deterrent; a hindrance.

Deterrent (a.) Serving to deter.

Deterrent (n.) That which deters or prevents.

Detersion (n.) The act of deterging or cleansing, as a sore.

Detersive (a.) Cleansing; detergent.

Detersive (n.) A cleansing agent; a detergent.

Detersively (adv.) In a way to cleanse.

Detersiveness (n.) The quality of cleansing.

Detested (imp. & p. p.) of Detest

Detesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detest

Detest (v. t.) To witness against; to denounce; to condemn.

Detest (v. t.) To hate intensely; to abhor; to abominate; to loathe; as, we detest what is contemptible or evil.

Detestability (n.) Capacity of being odious.

Detestable (a.) Worthy of being detested; abominable; extremely hateful; very odious; deserving abhorrence; as, detestable vices.

Detestableness (n.) The quality or state of being detestable.

Detestably (adv.) In a detestable manner.

Detesttate (v. t.) To detest.

Detestation (n.) The act of detesting; extreme hatred or dislike; abhorrence; loathing.

Detester (n.) One who detes//

Dethroned (imp. & p. p.) of Dethrone

Dethroning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dethrone

Dethrone (v. t.) To remove or drive from a throne; to depose; to divest of supreme authority and dignity.

Dethronement (n.) Deposal from a throne; deposition from regal power.

Dethroner (n.) One who dethrones.

Dethronization (n.) Dethronement.

Dethronize (v. t.) To dethrone or unthrone.

Detinue (n.) A person or thing detained

Detinue (n.) A form of action for the recovery of a personal chattel wrongfully detained.

Detonated (imp. & p. p.) of Detonate

Detonating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detonate

Detonate (v. i.) To explode with a sudden report; as, niter detonates with sulphur.

Detonate (v. t.) To cause to explode; to cause to burn or inflame with a sudden report.

Detonating (a. & n.) from Detonate.

Detonation (n.) An explosion or sudden report made by the instantaneous decomposition or combustion of unstable substances' as, the detonation of gun cotton.

Detonator (n.) One who, or that which, detonates.

Detonization (n.) The act of detonizing; detonation.

Detonized (imp. & p. p.) of Detonize

Detonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detonize

Detonize (v. t. & i.) To explode, or cause to explode; to burn with an explosion; to detonate.

Detorsion (n.) Same as Detortion.

Detorted (imp. & p. p.) of Detort

Detorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detort

Detort (v. t.) To turn form the original or plain meaning; to pervert; to wrest.

Detortion (n.) The act of detorting, or the state of being detorted; a twisting or warping.

Detour (n.) A turning; a circuitous route; a deviation from a direct course; as, the detours of the Mississippi.

Detracted (imp. & p. p.) of Detract

Detracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detract

Detract (v. t.) To take away; to withdraw.

Detract (v. t.) To take credit or reputation from; to defame.

Detract (v. i.) To take away a part or something, especially from one's credit; to lessen reputation; to derogate; to defame; -- often with from.

Detracter (n.) One who detracts; a detractor.

Detractingly (adv.) In a detracting manner.

Detraction (n.) A taking away or withdrawing.

Detraction (n.) The act of taking away from the reputation or good name of another; a lessening or cheapening in the estimation of others; the act of depreciating another, from envy or malice; calumny.

Detractious (a.) Containing detraction; detractory.

Detractive (a.) Tending to detractor draw.

Detractive (a.) Tending to lower in estimation; depreciative.

Detractiveness (n.) The quality of being detractive.

Detracor (n.) One who detracts; a derogator; a defamer.

Detractory (a.) Defamatory by denial of desert; derogatory; calumnious.

Detractress (n.) A female detractor.

Detrain (v. i. & t.) To alight, or to cause to alight, from a railway train.

Detrect (v. t.) To refuse; to decline.

Detriment (n.) That which injures or causes damage; mischief; harm; diminution; loss; damage; -- used very generically; as, detriments to property, religion, morals, etc.

Detriment (n.) A charge made to students and barristers for incidental repairs of the rooms they occupy.

Detriment (v. t.) To do injury to; to hurt.

Detrimental (a.) Causing detriment; injurious; hurtful.

Detrimentalness (n.) The quality of being detrimental; injuriousness.

Detrital (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, detritus.

Detrite (a.) Worn out.

Detrition (n.) A wearing off or away.

Detritus (n.) A mass of substances worn off from solid bodies by attrition, and reduced to small portions; as, diluvial detritus.

Detritus (n.) Hence: Any fragments separated from the body to which they belonged; any product of disintegration.

Detruded (imp. & p. p.) of Detrude

Detruding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detrude

Detrude (v. t.) To thrust down or out; to push down with force.

Detruncated (imp. & p. p.) of Detuncate

Detruncating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detuncate

Detuncate (v. t.) To shorten by cutting; to cut off; to lop off.

Detruncation (n.) The act of lopping or cutting off, as the head from the body.

Detrusion (n.) The act of thrusting or driving down or outward; outward thrust.

Dette (n.) Debt.

Detteles (a.) Free from debt.

Detumescence (n.) Diminution of swelling; subsidence of anything swollen.

Detur (n.) A present of books given to a meritorious undergraduate student as a prize.

Deturb (v. t.) To throw down.

Deturbate (v. t.) To evict; to remove.

Deturbation (n.) The act of deturbating.

Deturn (v. t.) To turn away.

Deturpate (v. t.) To defile; to disfigure.

Deturpation (n.) A making foul.

Deuce (n.) Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts.

Deuce (n.) A condition of the score beginning whenever each side has won three strokes in the same game (also reckoned 40 all), and reverted to as often as a tie is made until one of the sides secures two successive strokes following a tie or deuce, which decides the game.

Deuce (n.) The devil; a demon.

Deuced (a.) Devilish; excessive; extreme.

Deuse (a.) Alt. of Deused

Deused (a.) See Deuce, Deuced.

Deuterocanonical (a.) Pertaining to a second canon, or ecclesiastical writing of inferior authority; -- said of the Apocrypha, certain Epistles, etc.

Deuterogamist (n.) One who marries the second time.

Deuterogamy (n.) A second marriage, after the death of the first husband of wife; -- in distinction from bigamy, as defined in the old canon law. See Bigamy.

Deuterogenic (a.) Of secondary origin; -- said of certain rocks whose material has been derived from older rocks.

Deuteronomist (n.) The writer of Deuteronomy.

Deuteronomy (n.) The fifth book of the Pentateuch, containing the second giving of the law by Moses.

Deuteropathia (n.) Alt. of Deuteropathy

Deuteropathy (n.) A sympathetic affection of any part of the body, as headache from an overloaded stomach.

Deuteropathic (a.) Pertaining to deuteropathy; of the nature of deuteropathy.

Deuteroscopy (n.) Second sight.

Deuteroscopy (n.) That which is seen at a second view; a meaning beyond the literal sense; the second intention; a hidden signification.

Deuterozooid (n.) One of the secondary, and usually sexual, zooids produced by budding or fission from the primary zooids, in animals having alternate generations. In the tapeworms, the joints are deuterozooids.

Deuthydroguret (n.) Same as Deutohydroguret.

Deuto- () Alt. of Deut-

Deut- () A prefix which formerly properly indicated the second in a regular series of compound in the series, and not to its composition, but which is now generally employed in the same sense as bi-or di-, although little used.

Deutohydroguret (n.) A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of hydrogen united with some other element or radical.

Deutoplasm (n.) The lifeless food matter in the cytoplasm of an ovum or a cell, as distinguished from the active or true protoplasm; yolk substance; yolk.

Deutoplastic (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, deutoplasm.

Deutosulphuret (n.) A disulphide.

Deutoxide (n.) A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of oxygen united with some other element or radical; -- usually called dioxide, or less frequently, binoxide.

Deutzia (n.) A genus of shrubs with pretty white flowers, much cultivated.

Dev (n.) Alt. of Deva

Deva (n.) A god; a deity; a divine being; an idol; a king.

Devanagari (n.) The character in which Sanskrit is written.

Devaporation (n.) The change of vapor into water, as in the formation of rain.

Devast (v. t.) To devastate.

Devastated (imp. & p. p.) of Devastate

Devastating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devastate

Devastate (v. t.) To lay waste; to ravage; to desolate.

Devastation (n.) The act of devastating, or the state of being devastated; a laying waste.

Devastation (n.) Waste of the goods of the deceased by an executor or administrator.

Devastator (n.) One who, or that which, devastates.

Devastavit (n.) Waste or misapplication of the assets of a deceased person by an executor or an administrator.

Devata (n.) A deity; a divine being; a good spirit; an idol.

Deve (a.) Deaf.

Develin (n.) The European swift.

Developed (imp. & p. p.) of Develop

Developing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Develop

Develop (v. t.) To free from that which infolds or envelops; to unfold; to lay open by degrees or in detail; to make visible or known; to disclose; to produce or give forth; as, to develop theories; a motor that develops 100 horse power.

Develop (v. t.) To unfold gradually, as a flower from a bud; hence, to bring through a succession of states or stages, each of which is preparatory to the next; to form or expand by a process of growth; to cause to change gradually from an embryo, or a lower state, to a higher state or form of being; as, sunshine and rain develop the bud into a flower; to develop the mind.

Develop (v. t.) To advance; to further; to prefect; to make to increase; to promote the growth of.

Develop (v. t.) To change the form of, as of an algebraic expression, by executing certain indicated operations without changing the value.

Develop (v. t.) To cause to become visible, as an invisible or latent image upon plate, by submitting it to chemical agents; to bring to view.

Develop (v. i.) To go through a process of natural evolution or growth, by successive changes from a less perfect to a more perfect or more highly organized state; to advance from a simpler form of existence to one more complex either in structure or function; as, a blossom develops from a bud; the seed develops into a plant; the embryo develops into a well-formed animal; the mind develops year by year.

Develop (v. i.) To become apparent gradually; as, a picture on sensitive paper develops on the application of heat; the plans of the conspirators develop.

Developable (a.) Capable of being developed.

Developer (n.) One who, or that which, develops.

Developer (n.) A reagent by the action of which the latent image upon a photographic plate, after exposure in the camera, or otherwise, is developed and visible.

Development (n.) The act of developing or disclosing that which is unknown; a gradual unfolding process by which anything is developed, as a plan or method, or an image upon a photographic plate; gradual advancement or growth through a series of progressive changes; also, the result of developing, or a developed state.

Development (n.) The series of changes which animal and vegetable organisms undergo in their passage from the embryonic state to maturity, from a lower to a higher state of organization.

Development (n.) The act or process of changing or expanding an expression into another of equivalent value or meaning.

Development (n.) The equivalent expression into which another has been developed.

Development (n.) The elaboration of a theme or subject; the unfolding of a musical idea; the evolution of a whole piece or movement from a leading theme or motive.

Developmental (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the process of development; as, the developmental power of a germ.

Devenustate (v. t.) To deprive of beauty or grace.

Devergence (n.) Alt. of Devergency

Devergency (n.) See Divergence.

Devested (imp. & p. p.) of Devest

Devesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devest

Devest (v. t.) To divest; to undress.

Devest (v. t.) To take away, as an authority, title, etc., to deprive; to alienate, as an estate.

Devest (v. i.) To be taken away, lost, or alienated, as a title or an estate.

Devex (a.) Bending down; sloping.

Devex (n.) Devexity.

Devexity (a.) A bending downward; a sloping; incurvation downward; declivity.

Devi (n.) ; fem. of Deva. A goddess.

Deviant (a.) Deviating.

Deviated (imp. & p. p.) of Deviate

Deviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deviate

Deviate (v. i.) To go out of the way; to turn aside from a course or a method; to stray or go astray; to err; to digress; to diverge; to vary.

Deviate (v. t.) To cause to deviate.

Deviation (n.) The act of deviating; a wandering from the way; variation from the common way, from an established rule, etc.; departure, as from the right course or the path of duty.

Deviation (n.) The state or result of having deviated; a transgression; an act of sin; an error; an offense.

Deviation (n.) The voluntary and unnecessary departure of a ship from, or delay in, the regular and usual course of the specific voyage insured, thus releasing the underwriters from their responsibility.

Deviator (n.) One who, or that which, deviates.

Deviatory (a.) Tending to deviate; devious; as, deviatory motion.

Device (n.) That which is devised, or formed by design; a contrivance; an invention; a project; a scheme; often, a scheme to deceive; a stratagem; an artifice.

Device (n.) Power of devising; invention; contrivance.

Device (n.) An emblematic design, generally consisting of one or more figures with a motto, used apart from heraldic bearings to denote the historical situation, the ambition, or the desire of the person adopting it. See Cognizance.

Device (n.) Improperly, an heraldic bearing.

Device (n.) Anything fancifully conceived.

Device (n.) A spectacle or show.

Device (n.) Opinion; decision.

Deviceful (a.) Full of devices; inventive.

Devicefully (adv.) In a deviceful manner.

Devil (n.) The Evil One; Satan, represented as the tempter and spiritual of mankind.

Devil (n.) An evil spirit; a demon.

Devil (n.) A very wicked person; hence, any great evil.

Devil (n.) An expletive of surprise, vexation, or emphasis, or, ironically, of negation.

Devil (n.) A dish, as a bone with the meat, broiled and excessively peppered; a grill with Cayenne pepper.

Devil (n.) A machine for tearing or cutting rags, cotton, etc.

Deviled (imp. & p. p.) of Devil

Devilled () of Devil

Deviling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devil

Devilling () of Devil

Devil (v. t.) To make like a devil; to invest with the character of a devil.

Devil (v. t.) To grill with Cayenne pepper; to season highly in cooking, as with pepper.

Devil-diver (n.) Alt. of Devil bird

Devil bird (n.) A small water bird. See Dabchick.

Deviless (n.) A she-devil.

Devilet (n.) A little devil.

Devilfish (n.) A huge ray (Manta birostris / Cephaloptera vampyrus) of the Gulf of Mexico and Southern Atlantic coasts. Several other related species take the same name. See Cephaloptera.

Devilfish (n.) A large cephalopod, especially the very large species of Octopus and Architeuthis. See Octopus.

Devilfish (n.) The gray whale of the Pacific coast. See Gray whale.

Devilfish (n.) The goosefish or angler (Lophius), and other allied fishes. See Angler.

Deviling (n.) A young devil.

Devilish (a.) Resembling, characteristic of, or pertaining to, the devil; diabolical; wicked in the extreme.

Devilish (a.) Extreme; excessive.

Devilism (n.) The state of the devil or of devils; doctrine of the devil or of devils.

Devilize (v. t.) To make a devil of.

Devilkin (n.) A little devil; a devilet.

Devilment (n.) Deviltry.

Devilries (pl. ) of Devilry

Devilry (n.) Conduct suitable to the devil; extreme wickedness; deviltry.

Devilry (n.) The whole body of evil spirits.

Devil's darning-needle () A dragon fly. See Darning needle, under Darn, v. t.

Devilship (n.) The character or person of a devil or the devil.

Deviltries (pl. ) of Deviltry

Deviltry (n.) Diabolical conduct; malignant mischief; devilry.

Devilwood (n.) A kind of tree (Osmanthus Americanus), allied to the European olive.

Devious (a.) Out of a straight line; winding; varying from directness; as, a devious path or way.

Devious (a.) Going out of the right or common course; going astray; erring; wandering; as, a devious step.

Devirginate (a.) Deprived of virginity.

Devirginate (v. t.) To deprive of virginity; to deflour.

Devirgination (n.) A deflouring.

Devisable (a.) Capable of being devised, invented, or contrived.

Devisable (a.) Capable of being bequeathed, or given by will.

Devisal (n.) A devising.

Devised (imp. & p. p.) of Devise

Devising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devise

Devise (v. t.) To form in the mind by new combinations of ideas, new applications of principles, or new arrangement of parts; to formulate by thought; to contrive; to excogitate; to invent; to plan; to scheme; as, to devise an engine, a new mode of writing, a plan of defense, or an argument.

Devise (v. t.) To plan or scheme for; to purpose to obtain.

Devise (v. t.) To say; to relate; to describe.

Devise (v. t.) To imagine; to guess.

Devise (v. t.) To give by will; -- used of real estate; formerly, also, of chattels.

Devise (v. i.) To form a scheme; to lay a plan; to contrive; to consider.

Devise (n.) The act of giving or disposing of real estate by will; -- sometimes improperly applied to a bequest of personal estate.

Devise (n.) A will or testament, conveying real estate; the clause of a will making a gift of real property.

Devise (n.) Property devised, or given by will.

Devise (n.) Device. See Device.

Devisee (n.) One to whom a devise is made, or real estate given by will.

Deviser (n.) One who devises.

Devisor (n.) One who devises, or gives real estate by will; a testator; -- correlative to devisee.

Devitable (a.) Avoidable.

Devitalize (v. t.) To deprive of life or vitality.

Devitation (n.) An avoiding or escaping; also, a warning.

Devitrification (n.) The act or process of devitrifying, or the state of being devitrified. Specifically, the conversion of molten glassy matter into a stony mass by slow cooling, the result being the formation of crystallites, microbites, etc., in the glassy base, which are then called devitrification products.

Devitrify (v. t.) To deprive of glasslike character; to take away vitreous luster and transparency from.

Devocalize (v. t.) To make toneless; to deprive of vowel quality.

Devocation (n.) A calling off or away.

Devoid (v. t.) To empty out; to remove.

Devoid (v. t.) Void; empty; vacant.

Devoid (v. t.) Destitute; not in possession; -- with of; as, devoid of sense; devoid of pity or of pride.

Devoir (n.) Duty; service owed; hence, due act of civility or respect; -- now usually in the plural; as, they paid their devoirs to the ladies.

Devolute (v. t.) To devolve.

Devolution (n.) The act of rolling down.

Devolution (n.) Transference from one person to another; a passing or devolving upon a successor.

Devolved (imp. & p. p.) of Devolve

Devolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devolve

Devolve (v. t.) To roll onward or downward; to pass on.

Devolve (v. t.) To transfer from one person to another; to deliver over; to hand down; -- generally with upon, sometimes with to or into.

Devolve (v. i.) To pass by transmission or succession; to be handed over or down; -- generally with on or upon, sometimes with to or into; as, after the general fell, the command devolved upon (or on) the next officer in rank.

Devolvement (n.) The act or process of devolving;; devolution.

Devon (n.) One of a breed of hardy cattle originating in the country of Devon, England. Those of pure blood have a deep red color. The small, longhorned variety, called North Devons, is distinguished by the superiority of its working oxen.

Devonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Devon or Devonshire in England; as, the Devonian rocks, period, or system.

Devonian (n.) The Devonian age or formation.

Devoration (n.) The act of devouring.

Devotary (n.) A votary.

Devoted (imp. & p. p.) of Devote

Devoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devote

Devote (v. t.) To appropriate by vow; to set apart or dedicate by a solemn act; to consecrate; also, to consign over; to doom; to evil; to devote one to destruction; the city was devoted to the flames.

Devote (v. t.) To execrate; to curse.

Devote (v. t.) To give up wholly; to addict; to direct the attention of wholly or compound; to attach; -- often with a reflexive pronoun; as, to devote one's self to science, to one's friends, to piety, etc.

Devote (a.) Devoted; addicted; devout.

Devote (n.) A devotee.

Devoted (a.) Consecrated to a purpose; strongly attached; zealous; devout; as, a devoted admirer.

Devotee (n.) One who is wholly devoted; esp., one given wholly to religion; one who is superstitiously given to religious duties and ceremonies; a bigot.

Devotement (n.) The state of being devoted, or set apart by a vow.

Devoter (n.) One who devotes; a worshiper.

Devotion (n.) The act of devoting; consecration.

Devotion (n.) The state of being devoted; addiction; eager inclination; strong attachment love or affection; zeal; especially, feelings toward God appropriately expressed by acts of worship; devoutness.

Devotion (n.) Act of devotedness or devoutness; manifestation of strong attachment; act of worship; prayer.

Devotion (n.) Disposal; power of disposal.

Devotion (n.) A thing consecrated; an object of devotion.

Devotional (a.) Pertaining to, suited to, or used in, devotion; as, a devotional posture; devotional exercises; a devotional frame of mind.

Devotionalist (n.) Alt. of Devotionist

Devotionist (n.) One given to devotion, esp. to excessive formal devotion.

Devotionality (n.) The practice of a devotionalist.

Devotionally (adv.) In a devotional manner; toward devotion.

Devoto (n.) A devotee.

Devotor (n.) A worshiper; one given to devotion.

Devoured (imp. & p. p.) of Devour

Devouring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devour

Devour (v. t.) To eat up with greediness; to consume ravenously; to feast upon like a wild beast or a glutton; to prey upon.

Devour (v. t.) To seize upon and destroy or appropriate greedily, selfishly, or wantonly; to consume; to swallow up; to use up; to waste; to annihilate.

Devour (v. t.) To enjoy with avidity; to appropriate or take in eagerly by the senses.

Devourable (a.) That may be devoured.

Devourer (n.) One who, or that which, devours.

Devouringly (adv.) In a devouring manner.

Devout (v. t.) Devoted to religion or to religious feelings and duties; absorbed in religious exercises; given to devotion; pious; reverent; religious.

Devout (v. t.) Expressing devotion or piety; as, eyes devout; sighs devout; a devout posture.

Devout (v. t.) Warmly devoted; hearty; sincere; earnest; as, devout wishes for one's welfare.

Devout (n.) A devotee.

Devout (n.) A devotional composition, or part of a composition; devotion.

Devoutful (a.) Full of devotion.

Devoutful (a.) Sacred.

Devoutless (a.) Destitute of devotion.

Devoutly (adv.) In a devout and reverent manner; with devout emotions; piously.

Devoutly (adv.) Sincerely; solemnly; earnestly.

Devoutness (n.) Quality or state of being devout.

Devove (v. t.) To devote.

Devow (v. t.) To give up; to devote.

Devow (v. t.) To disavow; to disclaim.

Devulgarize (v. t.) To free from what is vulgar, common, or narrow.

Dew (n.) Moisture from the atmosphere condensed by cool bodies upon their surfaces, particularly at night.

Dew (n.) Figuratively, anything which falls lightly and in a refreshing manner.

Dew (n.) An emblem of morning, or fresh vigor.

Dewed (imp. & p. p.) of Dew

Dewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dew

Dew (v. t.) To wet with dew or as with dew; to bedew; to moisten; as with dew.

Dew (a. & n.) Same as Due, or Duty.

Dewberry (n.) The fruit of certain species of bramble (Rubus); in England, the fruit of R. caesius, which has a glaucous bloom; in America, that of R. canadensis and R. hispidus, species of low blackberries.

Dewberry (n.) The plant which bears the fruit.

Dewclaw (n.) In any animal, esp. of the Herbivora, a rudimentary claw or small hoof not reaching the ground.

Dewdrop (n.) A drop of dew.

Dewfall (n.) The falling of dew; the time when dew begins to fall.

Dewiness (n.) State of being dewy.

Dewlap (n.) The pendulous skin under the neck of an ox, which laps or licks the dew in grazing.

Dewlap (n.) The flesh upon the human throat, especially when with age.

Dewlapped (a.) Furnished with a dewlap.

Dewless (a.) Having no dew.

Dew-point (n.) The temperature at which dew begins to form. It varies with the humidity and temperature of the atmosphere.

Dewret (v. t.) To ret or rot by the process called dewretting.

Dewretting (n.) Dewrotting; the process of decomposing the gummy matter of flax and hemp and setting the fibrous part, by exposure on a sward to dew, rain, and sunshine.

Dewrot (v. t.) To rot, as flax or hemp, by exposure to rain, dew, and sun. See Dewretting.

Dewworm (n.) See Earthworm.

Dewy (a.) Pertaining to dew; resembling, consisting of, or moist with, dew.

Dewy (a.) Falling gently and beneficently, like the dew.

Dewy (a.) Resembling a dew-covered surface; appearing as if covered with dew.

Dexter (a.) Pertaining to, or situated on, the right hand; right, as opposed to sinister, or left.

Dexter (a.) On the right-hand side of a shield, i. e., towards the right hand of its wearer. To a spectator in front, as in a pictorial representation, this would be the left side.

Dexterical (a.) Dexterous.

Dexterity (n.) Right-handedness.

Dexterity (n.) Readiness and grace in physical activity; skill and ease in using the hands; expertness in manual acts; as, dexterity with the chisel.

Dexterity (n.) Readiness in the use or control of the mental powers; quickness and skill in managing any complicated or difficult affair; adroitness.

Dexterous (a.) Ready and expert in the use of the body and limbs; skillful and active with the hands; handy; ready; as, a dexterous hand; a dexterous workman.

Dexterous (a.) Skillful in contrivance; quick at inventing expedients; expert; as, a dexterous manager.

Dexterous (a.) Done with dexterity; skillful; artful; as, dexterous management.

Dexterously (adv.) In a dexterous manner; skillfully.

Dexterousness (n.) The quality of being dexterous; dexterity.

Dextrad (adv.) Toward the right side; dextrally.

Dextral (a.) Right, as opposed to sinistral, or left.

Dextrality (n.) The state of being on the right-hand side; also, the quality of being right-handed; right-handedness.

Dextrally (adv.) Towards the right; as, the hands of a watch rotate dextrally.

Dextrer (n.) A war horse; a destrer.

Dextrin (n.) A translucent, gummy, amorphous substance, nearly tasteless and odorless, used as a substitute for gum, for sizing, etc., and obtained from starch by the action of heat, acids, or diastase. It is of somewhat variable composition, containing several carbohydrates which change easily to their respective varieties of sugar. It is so named from its rotating the plane of polarization to the right; -- called also British gum, Alsace gum, gommelin, leiocome, etc. See Achroodextrin, and Erythrodextrin.

Dextro- () A prefix, from L. dexter, meaning, pertaining to, or toward, the right

Dextro- () having the property of turning the plane of polarized light to the right; as, dextrotartaric acid.

Dextrogerous (a.) See Dextrogyrate.

Dextroglucose (n.) Same as Dextrose.

Dextrogyrate (a.) Same as Dextrorotatory.

Dextronic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, dextrose; as, dextronic acid.

Dextrorotary (a.) See Dextrotatory.

Dextrorotatory (a.) Turning, or causing to turn, toward the right hand; esp., turning the plane of polarization of luminous rays toward the right hand; as, dextrorotatory crystals, sugars, etc. Cf. Levorotatory.

Dextrorsal (a.) Alt. of Dextrorse

Dextrorse (a.) Turning from the left to the right, in the ascending line, as in the spiral inclination of the stem of the common morning-glory.

Dextrose (n.) A sirupy, or white crystalline, variety of sugar, C6H12O6 (so called from turning the plane of polarization to the right), occurring in many ripe fruits. Dextrose and levulose are obtained by the inversion of cane sugar or sucrose, and hence called invert sugar. Dextrose is chiefly obtained by the action of heat and acids on starch, and hence called also starch sugar. It is also formed from starchy food by the action of the amylolytic ferments of saliva and pancreatic juice.

Dextrous (n.) Alt. of Dextrousness

Dextrously (n.) Alt. of Dextrousness

Dextrousness (n.) Same as Dexterous, Dexterously, etc.

Dey (n.) A servant who has charge of the dairy; a dairymaid.

Deys (pl. ) of Dey

Dey (n.) The governor of Algiers; -- so called before the French conquest in 1830.

Deye (v. i.) To die.

Deynte (n. & a.) Alt. of Deyntee

Deyntee (n. & a.) See Dainty.

Dezincification (n.) The act or process of freeing from zinc; also, the condition resulting from the removal of zinc.

Dezincify (v. t.) To deprive of, or free from, zinc.

Dhole (n.) A fierce, wild dog (Canis Dukhunensis), found in the mountains of India. It is remarkable for its propensity to hunt the tiger and other wild animals in packs.

Dhony (n.) A Ceylonese boat. See Doni.

Dhoorra (n.) Alt. of Dhurra

Dhourra (n.) Alt. of Dhurra

Dhurra (n.) Indian millet. See Durra.

Dhow (n.) A coasting vessel of Arabia, East Africa, and the Indian Ocean. It has generally but one mast and a lateen sail.

Di- () A prefix, signifying twofold, double, twice

Di- () denoting two atoms, radicals, groups, or equivalents, as the case may be. See Bi-, 2.

Dia- () Alt. of Di-

Di- () A prefix denoting through; also, between, apart, asunder, across. Before a vowel dia-becomes di-; as, diactinic; dielectric, etc.

Diabase (n.) A basic, dark-colored, holocrystalline, igneous rock, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and pyroxene with magnetic iron; -- often limited to rocks pretertiary in age. It includes part of what was early called greenstone.

Diabaterial (a.) Passing over the borders.

Diabetes (n.) A disease which is attended with a persistent, excessive discharge of urine. Most frequently the urine is not only increased in quantity, but contains saccharine matter, in which case the disease is generally fatal.

Diabetic (a.) Alt. of Diabetical

Diabetical (a.) Pertaining to diabetes; as, diabetic or diabetical treatment.

Diablerie (n.) Alt. of Diabley

Diabley (n.) Devilry; sorcery or incantation; a diabolical deed; mischief.

Diabolic (a.) Alt. of Diabolical

Diabolical (a.) Pertaining to the devil; resembling, or appropriate, or appropriate to, the devil; devilish; infernal; impious; atrocious; nefarious; outrageously wicked; as, a diabolic or diabolical temper or act.

Diabolify (v. t.) To ascribed diabolical qualities to; to change into, or to represent as, a devil.

Diabolism (n.) Character, action, or principles appropriate to the devil.

Diabolism (n.) Possession by the devil.

Diabolize (v. t.) To render diabolical.

Diacatholicon (n.) A universal remedy; -- name formerly to a purgative electuary.

Diacaustic (a.) Pertaining to, or possessing the properties of, a species of caustic curves formed by refraction. See Caustic surface, under Caustic.

Diacaustic (n.) That which burns by refraction, as a double convex lens, or the sun's rays concentrated by such a lens, sometimes used as a cautery.

Diacaustic (n.) A curved formed by the consecutive intersections of rays of light refracted through a lens.

Diachylon (n.) Alt. of Diachylum

Diachylum (n.) A plaster originally composed of the juices of several plants (whence its name), but now made of an oxide of lead and oil, and consisting essentially of glycerin mixed with lead salts of the fat acids.

Diacid (a.) Divalent; -- said of a base or radical as capable of saturating two acid monad radicals or a dibasic acid. Cf. Dibasic, a., and Biacid.

Diacodium (n.) A sirup made of poppies.

Diaconal (a.) Of or pertaining to a deacon.

Diaconate (n.) The office of a deacon; deaconship; also, a body or board of deacons.

Diaconate (a.) Governed by deacons.

Diacope (n.) Tmesis.

Diacoustic (a.) Pertaining to the science or doctrine of refracted sounds.

Diacoustics (n.) That branch of natural philosophy which treats of the properties of sound as affected by passing through different mediums; -- called also diaphonics. See the Note under Acoustics.

Diacritic (a.) Alt. of Diacritical

Diacritical (a.) That separates or distinguishes; -- applied to points or marks used to distinguish letters of similar form, or different sounds of the same letter, as, a, /, a, /, /, etc.

Diactinic (a.) Capable of transmitting the chemical or actinic rays of light; as, diactinic media.

Diadelphia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants whose stamens are united into two bodies or bundles by their filaments.

Diadelphian (a.) Alt. of Diadelphous

Diadelphous (a.) Of or pertaining to the class Diadelphia; having the stamens united into two bodies by their filaments (said of a plant or flower); grouped into two bundles or sets by coalescence of the filaments (said of stamens).

Diadem (n.) Originally, an ornamental head band or fillet, worn by Eastern monarchs as a badge of royalty; hence (later), also, a crown, in general.

Diadem (n.) Regal power; sovereignty; empire; -- considered as symbolized by the crown.

Diadem (n.) An arch rising from the rim of a crown (rarely also of a coronet), and uniting with others over its center.

Diadem (v. t.) To adorn with a diadem; to crown.

Diadrom (n.) A complete course or vibration; time of vibration, as of a pendulum.

Diaereses (pl. ) of Dieresis

Diereses (pl. ) of Dieresis

Diaeresis (n.) Alt. of Dieresis

Dieresis (n.) The separation or resolution of one syllable into two; -- the opposite of synaeresis.

Dieresis (n.) A mark consisting of two dots [/], placed over the second of two adjacent vowels, to denote that they are to be pronounced as distinct letters; as, cooperate, aerial.

Diaeretic (a.) Caustic.

Diageotropic (a.) Relating to, or exhibiting, diageotropism.

Diageotropism (n.) The tendency of organs (as roots) of plants to assume a position oblique or transverse to a direction towards the center of the earth.

Diaglyph (n.) An intaglio.

Diaglyphic (a.) Alt. of Diaglyphtic

Diaglyphtic (a.) Represented or formed by depressions in the general surface; as, diaglyphic sculpture or engraving; -- opposed to anaglyphic.

Diagnose (v. t. & i.) To ascertain by diagnosis; to diagnosticate. See Diagnosticate.

Diagnoses (pl. ) of Diagnosis

Diagnosis (n.) The art or act of recognizing the presence of disease from its signs or symptoms, and deciding as to its character; also, the decision arrived at.

Diagnosis (n.) Scientific determination of any kind; the concise description of characterization of a species.

Diagnosis (n.) Critical perception or scrutiny; judgment based on such scrutiny; esp., perception of, or judgment concerning, motives and character.

Diagnostic (a.) Pertaining to, or furnishing, a diagnosis; indicating the nature of a disease.

Diagnostic (n.) The mark or symptom by which one disease is known or distinguished from others.

Diagnosticate (v. t. & i.) To make a diagnosis of; to recognize by its symptoms, as a disease.

Diagnostics (n.) That part of medicine which has to do with ascertaining the nature of diseases by means of their symptoms or signs.

Diagometer (n.) A sort of electroscope, invented by Rousseau, in which the dry pile is employed to measure the amount of electricity transmitted by different bodies, or to determine their conducting power.

Diagonal (a.) Joining two not adjacent angles of a quadrilateral or multilateral figure; running across from corner to corner; crossing at an angle with one of the sides.

Diagonal (n.) A right line drawn from one angle to another not adjacent, of a figure of four or more sides, and dividing it into two parts.

Diagonal (n.) A member, in a framed structure, running obliquely across a panel.

Diagonal (n.) A diagonal cloth; a kind of cloth having diagonal stripes, ridges, or welts made in the weaving.

Diagonally (adv.) In a diagonal direction.

Diagonial (a.) Diagonal; diametrical; hence; diametrically opposed.

Diagram (n.) A figure or drawing made to illustrate a statement, or facilitate a demonstration; a plan.

Diagram (n.) Any simple drawing made for mathematical or scientific purposes, or to assist a verbal explanation which refers to it; a mechanical drawing, as distinguished from an artistical one.

Diagram (v. t.) To put into the form of a diagram.

Diagrammatic (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a diagram; showing by diagram.

Diagraph (n.) A drawing instrument, combining a protractor and scale.

Diagraphic (a.) Alt. of Diagraphical

Diagraphical (a.) Descriptive.

Diagraphics (n.) The art or science of descriptive drawing; especially, the art or science of drawing by mechanical appliances and mathematical rule.

Diaheliotropic (a.) Relating or, or manifesting, diaheliotropism.

Diaheliotropism (n.) A tendency of leaves or other organs of plants to have their dorsal surface faced towards the rays of light.

Dial (n.) An instrument, formerly much used for showing the time of day from the shadow of a style or gnomon on a graduated arc or surface; esp., a sundial; but there are lunar and astral dials. The style or gnomon is usually parallel to the earth's axis, but the dial plate may be either horizontal or vertical.

Dial (n.) The graduated face of a timepiece, on which the time of day is shown by pointers or hands.

Dial (n.) A miner's compass.

Dialed (imp. & p. p.) of Dial

Dialled () of Dial

Dialing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dial

Dialling () of Dial

Dial (v. t.) To measure with a dial.

Dial (v. t.) To survey with a dial.

Dialect (n.) Means or mode of expressing thoughts; language; tongue; form of speech.

Dialect (n.) The form of speech of a limited region or people, as distinguished from ether forms nearly related to it; a variety or subdivision of a language; speech characterized by local peculiarities or specific circumstances; as, the Ionic and Attic were dialects of Greece; the Yorkshire dialect; the dialect of the learned.

Dialectal (a.) Relating to a dialect; dialectical; as, a dialectical variant.

Dialectic (n.) Same as Dialectics.

Dialectic (a.) Alt. of Dialectical

Dialectical (a.) Pertaining to dialectics; logical; argumental.

Dialectical (a.) Pertaining to a dialect or to dialects.

Dialectically (adv.) In a dialectical manner.

Dialectician (n.) One versed in dialectics; a logician; a reasoner.

Dialectics (n.) That branch of logic which teaches the rules and modes of reasoning; the application of logical principles to discursive reasoning; the science or art of discriminating truth from error; logical discussion.

Dialectology (n.) That branch of philology which is devoted to the consideration of dialects.

Dialector (n.) One skilled in dialectics.

Dialing (n.) The art of constructing dials; the science which treats of measuring time by dials.

Dialing (n.) A method of surveying, especially in mines, in which the bearings of the courses, or the angles which they make with each other, are determined by means of the circumferentor.

Dialist (n.) A maker of dials; one skilled in dialing.

Diallage (n.) A figure by which arguments are placed in various points of view, and then turned to one point.

Diallage (n.) A dark green or bronze-colored laminated variety of pyroxene, common in certain igneous rocks.

Diallel (a.) Meeting and intersecting, as lines; not parallel; -- opposed to parallel.

Diallyl (n.) A volatile, pungent, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H10, consisting of two allyl radicals, and belonging to the acetylene series.

Dialogical (a.) Relating to a dialogue; dialogistical.

Dialogically (adv.) In the manner or nature of a dialogue.

Dialogism (n.) An imaginary speech or discussion between two or more; dialogue.

Dialogist (n.) A speaker in a dialogue.

Dialogist (n.) A writer of dialogues.

Dialogistic (a.) Alt. of Dialogistical

Dialogistical (a.) Pertaining to a dialogue; having the form or nature of a dialogue.

Dialogite (n.) Native carbonate of manganese; rhodochrosite.

Dialogize (v. t.) To discourse in dialogue.

Dialogue (n.) A conversation between two or more persons; particularly, a formal conservation in theatrical performances or in scholastic exercises.

Dialogue (n.) A written composition in which two or more persons are represented as conversing or reasoning on some topic; as, the Dialogues of Plato.

Dialogue (v. i.) To take part in a dialogue; to dialogize.

Dialogue (v. t.) To express as in dialogue.

Dialypetalous (a.) Having separate petals; polypetalous.

Dialyses (pl. ) of Dialysis

Dialysis (n.) Diaeresis. See Diaeresis, 1.

Dialysis (n.) Same as Asyndeton.

Dialysis (n.) Debility.

Dialysis (n.) A solution of continuity; division; separation of parts.

Dialysis (n.) The separation of different substances in solution, as crystalloids and colloids, by means of their unequal diffusion, especially through natural or artificial membranes.

Dialytic (a.) Having the quality of unloosing or separating.

Dialyzate (n.) The material subjected to dialysis.

Dialyzation (n.) The act or process of dialysis.

Dialyzed (imp. & p. p.) of Dialyze

Dialyzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dialyze

Dialyze (v. t.) To separate, prepare, or obtain, by dialysis or osmose; to pass through an animal membrane; to subject to dialysis.

Dialyzed (a.) Prepared by diffusion through an animal membrane; as, dialyzed iron.

Dialyzer (n.) The instrument or medium used to effect chemical dialysis.

Diamagnet (n.) A body having diamagnetic polarity.

Diamagnetic (a.) Pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, diamagnetism; taking, or being of a nature to take, a position at right angles to the lines of magnetic force. See Paramagnetic.

Diamagnetic (n.) Any substance, as bismuth, glass, phosphorous, etc., which in a field of magnetic force is differently affected from the ordinary magnetic bodies, as iron; that is, which tends to take a position at right angles to the lines of magnetic force, and is repelled by either pole of the magnet.

Diamagnetically (adv.) In the manner of, or according to, diamagnetism.

Diamagnetism (n.) The science which treats of diamagnetic phenomena, and of the properties of diamagnetic bodies.

Diamagnetism (n.) That form or condition of magnetic action which characterizes diamagnetics.

Diamantiferous (a.) Yielding diamonds.

Diamantine (a.) Adamantine.

Diameter (n.) Any right line passing through the center of a figure or body, as a circle, conic section, sphere, cube, etc., and terminated by the opposite boundaries; a straight line which bisects a system of parallel chords drawn in a curve.

Diameter (n.) A diametral plane.

Diameter (n.) The length of a straight line through the center of an object from side to side; width; thickness; as, the diameter of a tree or rock.

Diameter (n.) The distance through the lower part of the shaft of a column, used as a standard measure for all parts of the order. See Module.

Diametral (a.) Pertaining to a diameter; diametrical.

Diametral (n.) A diameter.

Diametrally (adv.) Diametrically.

Diametric (a.) Alt. of Diametrical

Diametrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a diameter.

Diametrical (a.) As remote as possible, as if at the opposite end of a diameter; directly adverse.

Diametrically (adv.) In a diametrical manner; directly; as, diametrically opposite.

Diamide (n.) Any compound containing two amido groups united with one or more acid or negative radicals, -- as distinguished from a diamine. Cf. Amido acid, under Amido, and Acid amide, under Amide.

Diamido- (a.) A prefix or combining form of Diamine. [Also used adjectively.]

Diamine (n.) A compound containing two amido groups united with one or more basic or positive radicals, -- as contrasted with a diamide.

Diamond (n.) A precious stone or gem excelling in brilliancy and beautiful play of prismatic colors, and remarkable for extreme hardness.

Diamond (n.) A geometrical figure, consisting of four equal straight lines, and having two of the interior angles acute and two obtuse; a rhombus; a lozenge.

Diamond (n.) One of a suit of playing cards, stamped with the figure of a diamond.

Diamond (n.) A pointed projection, like a four-sided pyramid, used for ornament in lines or groups.

Diamond (n.) The infield; the square space, 90 feet on a side, having the bases at its angles.

Diamond (n.) The smallest kind of type in English printing, except that called brilliant, which is seldom seen.

Diamond (a.) Resembling a diamond; made of, or abounding in, diamonds; as, a diamond chain; a diamond field.

Diamond-back (n.) The salt-marsh terrapin of the Atlantic coast (Malacoclemmys palustris).

Diamonded (a.) Having figures like a diamond or lozenge.

Diamonded (a.) Adorned with diamonds; diamondized.

Diamondize (v. t.) To set with diamonds; to adorn; to enrich.

Diamond-shaped (a.) Shaped like a diamond or rhombus.

Diamylene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H20, of the ethylene series, regarded as a polymeric form of amylene.

Dian (a.) Diana.

Diana (n.) The daughter of Jupiter and Latona; a virgin goddess who presided over hunting, chastity, and marriage; -- identified with the Greek goddess Artemis.

Diandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having two stamens.

Diandrian (a.) Diandrous.

Diandrous (n.) Of or pertaining to the class Diandria; having two stamens.

Dianium (n.) Same as Columbium.

Dianoetic (a.) Pertaining to the discursive faculty, its acts or products.

Dianoialogy (n.) The science of the dianoetic faculties, and their operations.

Dianthus (n.) A genus of plants containing some of the most popular of cultivated flowers, including the pink, carnation, and Sweet William.

Diapase (n.) Same as Diapason.

Diapasm (n.) Powdered aromatic herbs, sometimes made into little balls and strung together.

Diapason (n.) The octave, or interval which includes all the tones of the diatonic scale.

Diapason (n.) Concord, as of notes an octave apart; harmony.

Diapason (n.) The entire compass of tones.

Diapason (n.) A standard of pitch; a tuning fork; as, the French normal diapason.

Diapason (n.) One of certain stops in the organ, so called because they extend through the scale of the instrument. They are of several kinds, as open diapason, stopped diapason, double diapason, and the like.

Diapedesis (n.) The passage of the corpuscular elements of the blood from the blood vessels into the surrounding tissues, without rupture of the walls of the blood vessels.

Diapente (n.) The interval of the fifth.

Diapente (n.) A composition of five ingredients.

Diaper (n.) Any textile fabric (esp. linen or cotton toweling) woven in diaper pattern. See 2.

Diaper (n.) Surface decoration of any sort which consists of the constant repetition of one or more simple figures or units of design evenly spaced.

Diaper (n.) A towel or napkin for wiping the hands, etc.

Diaper (n.) An infant's breechcloth.

Diaper (v. t.) To ornament with figures, etc., arranged in the pattern called diaper, as cloth in weaving.

Diaper (v. t.) To put a diaper on (a child).

Diaper (v. i.) To draw flowers or figures, as upon cloth.

Diapering (n.) Same as Diaper, n., 2.

Diaphane (n.) A woven silk stuff with transparent and colored figures; diaper work.

Diaphaned (a.) Transparent or translucent.

Diaphaneity (n.) The quality of being diaphanous; transparency; pellucidness.

Diaphanic (a.) Having power to transmit light; transparent; diaphanous.

Diaphanie (n.) The art of imitating //ined glass with translucent paper.

Diaphanometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the transparency of the air.

Diaphanoscope (n.) A dark box constructed for viewing transparent pictures, with or without a lens.

Diaphanotype (n.) A colored photograph produced by superimposing a translucent colored positive over a strong uncolored one.

Diaphanous (a.) Allowing light to pass through, as porcelain; translucent or transparent; pellucid; clear.

Diaphanously (adv.) Translucently.

Diaphemetric (a.) Relating to the measurement of the tactile sensibility of parts; as, diaphemetric compasses.

Diaphonic (a.) Alt. of Diaphonical

Diaphonical (a.) Diacoustic.

Diaphonics (n.) The doctrine of refracted sound; diacoustics.

Diaphoresis (n.) Perspiration, or an increase of perspiration.

Diaphoretic (a.) Alt. of Diaphoretical

Diaphoretical (a.) Having the power to increase perspiration.

Diaphoretic (n.) A medicine or agent which promotes perspiration.

Diaphote (n.) An instrument designed for transmitting pictures by telegraph.

Diaphragm (n.) A dividing membrane or thin partition, commonly with an opening through it.

Diaphragm (n.) The muscular and tendinous partition separating the cavity of the chest from that of the abdomen; the midriff.

Diaphragm (n.) A calcareous plate which divides the cavity of certain shells into two parts.

Diaphragm (n.) A plate with an opening, which is generally circular, used in instruments to cut off marginal portions of a beam of light, as at the focus of a telescope.

Diaphragm (n.) A partition in any compartment, for various purposes.

Diaphragmatic (a.) Pertaining to a diaphragm; as, diaphragmatic respiration; the diaphragmatic arteries and nerves.

Diaphysis (n.) An abnormal prolongation of the axis of inflorescence.

Diaphysis (n.) The shaft, or main part, of a bone, which is first ossified.

Diapnoic (a.) Slightly increasing an insensible perspiration; mildly diaphoretic.

Diapnoic (n.) A gentle diaphoretic.

Diapophysical (a.) Pertaining to a diapophysis.

Diapophysis (n.) The dorsal transverse, or tubercular, process of a vertebra. See Vertebra.

Diarchy (n.) A form of government in which the supreme power is vested in two persons.

Diarial (a.) Alt. of Diarian

Diarian (a.) Pertaining to a diary; daily.

Diarist (n.) One who keeps a diary.

Diarrhea (n.) Alt. of Diarrhoea

Diarrhoea (n.) A morbidly frequent and profuse discharge of loose or fluid evacuations from the intestines, without tenesmus; a purging or looseness of the bowels; a flux.

Diarrheal (a.) Alt. of Diarrhoeal

Diarrhoeal (a.) Of or pertaining to diarrhea; like diarrhea.

Diarrhetic (a.) Alt. of Diarrhoetic

Diarrhoetic (a.) Producing diarrhea, or a purging.

Diarthrodial (a.) Relating to diarthrosis, or movable articulations.

Diarthrosis (n.) A form of articulation which admits of considerable motion; a complete joint; abarticulation. See Articulation.

Diaries (pl. ) of Diary

Diary (n.) A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; a journal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, a diary of the weather; a physician's diary.

Diary (a.) lasting for one day; as, a diary fever.

Diaspore (n.) A hydrate of alumina, often occurring in white lamellar masses with brilliant pearly luster; -- so named on account of its decrepitating when heated before the blowpipe.

Diastase (n.) A soluble, nitrogenous ferment, capable of converting starch and dextrin into sugar.

Diastasic (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, diastase; as, diastasic ferment.

Diastasis (n.) A forcible of bones without fracture.

Diastatic (a.) Relating to diastase; having the properties of diastase; effecting the conversion of starch into sugar.

Diastem (n.) Intervening space; interval.

Diastem (n.) An interval.

Diastema (n.) A vacant space, or gap, esp. between teeth in a jaw.

Diaster (n.) A double star; -- applied to the nucleus of a cell, when, during cell division, the loops of the nuclear network separate into two groups, preparatory to the formation of two daughter nuclei. See Karyokinesis.

Diastole (n.) The rhythmical expansion or dilatation of the heart and arteries; -- correlative to systole, or contraction.

Diastole (n.) A figure by which a syllable naturally short is made long.

Diastolic (a.) Of or pertaining to diastole.

Diastyle (n.) See under Intercolumniation.

Diatessaron (n.) The interval of a fourth.

Diatessaron (n.) A continuous narrative arranged from the first four books of the New Testament.

Diatessaron (n.) An electuary compounded of four medicines.

Diathermal (a.) Freely permeable by radiant heat.

Diathermancy (n.) Alt. of Diathermaneity

Diathermaneity (n.) The property of transmitting radiant heat; the quality of being diathermous.

Diathermanism (n.) The doctrine or the phenomena of the transmission of radiant heat.

Diathermanous (a.) Having the property of transmitting radiant heat; diathermal; -- opposed to athermanous.

Diathermic (a.) Affording a free passage to heat; as, diathermic substances.

Diathermometer (n.) An instrument for examining the thermal resistance or heat-conducting power of liquids.

Diathermous (a.) Same as Diathermal.

Diathesis (n.) Bodily condition or constitution, esp. a morbid habit which predisposes to a particular disease, or class of diseases.

Diathetic (a.) Pertaining to, or dependent on, a diathesis or special constitution of the body; as, diathetic disease.

Diatom (n.) One of the Diatomaceae, a family of minute unicellular Algae having a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individual multiplying by spontaneous division. By some authors diatoms are called Bacillariae, but this word is not in general use.

Diatom (n.) A particle or atom endowed with the vital principle.

Diatomic (a.) Containing two atoms.

Diatomic (a.) Having two replaceable atoms or radicals.

Diatomous (a.) Having a single, distinct, diagonal cleavage; -- said of crystals.

Diatonic (a.) Pertaining to the scale of eight tones, the eighth of which is the octave of the first.

Diatonically (adv.) In a diatonic manner.

Diatribe (n.) A prolonged or exhaustive discussion; especially, an acrimonious or invective harangue; a strain of abusive or railing language; a philippic.

Diatribist (n.) One who makes a diatribe or diatribes.

Diatryma (n.) An extinct eocene bird from New Mexico, larger than the ostrich.

Diazeuctic (a.) Alt. of Diazeutic

Diazeutic (a.) Disjoining two fourths; as, the diazeutic tone, which, like that from F to G in modern music, lay between two fourths, and, being joined to either, made a fifth.

Diazo- () A combining form (also used adjectively), meaning pertaining to, or derived from, a series of compounds containing a radical of two nitrogen atoms, united usually to an aromatic radical; as, diazo-benzene, C6H5.N2.OH.

Diazotize (v. t.) To subject to such reactions or processes that diazo compounds, or their derivatives, shall be produced by chemical exchange or substitution.

Dib (v. i.) To dip.

Dib (n.) One of the small bones in the knee joints of sheep uniting the bones above and below the joints.

Dib (n.) A child's game, played with dib bones.

Dibasic (a.) Having two acid hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basic atoms or radicals, in forming salts; bibasic; -- said of acids, as oxalic or sulphuric acids. Cf. Diacid, Bibasic.

Dibasicity (n.) The property or condition of being dibasic.

Dibber (n.) A dibble.

Dibble (v. i.) A pointed implement used to make holes in the ground in which no set out plants or to plant seeds.

Dibbled (imp. & p. p.) of Dibble

Dibbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dibble

Dibble (v. i.) To dib or dip frequently, as in angling.

Dibble (v. t.) To plant with a dibble; to make holes in (soil) with a dibble, for planting.

Dibble (v. t.) To make holes or indentations in, as if with a dibble.

Dibbler (n.) One who, or that which, dibbles, or makes holes in the ground for seed.

Dibranchiata (n. pl.) An order of cephalopods which includes those with two gills, an apparatus for emitting an inky fluid, and either eight or ten cephalic arms bearing suckers or hooks, as the octopi and squids. See Cephalopoda.

Dibranchiate (a.) Having two gills.

Dibranchiate (n.) One of the Dibranchiata.

Dibs (n.) A sweet preparation or treacle of grape juice, much used in the East.

Dibstone (n.) A pebble used in a child's game called dibstones.

Dibutyl (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C8H18, of the marsh-gas series, being one of several octanes, and consisting of two butyl radicals. Cf. Octane.

Dicacious (a.) Talkative; pert; saucy.

Dicacity (n.) Pertness; sauciness.

Dicalcic (a.) Having two atoms or equivalents of calcium to the molecule.

Dicarbonic (a.) Containing two carbon residues, or two carboxyl or radicals; as, oxalic acid is a dicarbonic acid.

Dicast (n.) A functionary in ancient Athens answering nearly to the modern juryman.

Dicastery (n.) A court of justice; judgment hall.

Die (pl. ) of Dice

Dice (n.) Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also, the game played with dice. See Die, n.

Diced (imp. & p. p.) of Dice

Dicing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dice

Dice (v. i.) To play games with dice.

Dice (v. i.) To ornament with squares, diamonds, or cubes.

Dicebox (n.) A box from which dice are thrown in gaming.

Dicentra (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants, with racemes of two-spurred or heart-shaped flowers, including the Dutchman's breeches, and the more showy Bleeding heart (D. spectabilis).

Dicephalous (a.) Having two heads on one body; double-headed.

Dicer (n.) A player at dice; a dice player; a gamester.

Dich (v. i.) To ditch.

Dichastic (a.) Capable of subdividing spontaneously.

Dichlamydeous (a.) Having two coverings, a calyx and in corolla.

Dichloride (n.) Same as Bichloride.

Dichogamous (a.) Manifesting dichogamy.

Dichogamy (n.) The condition of certain species of plants, in which the stamens and pistil do not mature simultaneously, so that these plants can never fertilize themselves.

Dichotomist (n.) One who dichotomizes.

Dichotomized (imp. & p. p.) of Dichotomize

Dichotomizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dichotomize

Dichotomize (v. t.) To cut into two parts; to part into two divisions; to divide into pairs; to bisect.

Dichotomize (v. t.) To exhibit as a half disk. See Dichotomy, 3.

Dichotomize (v. i.) To separate into two parts; to branch dichotomously; to become dichotomous.

Dichotomous (a.) Regularly dividing by pairs from bottom to top; as, a dichotomous stem.

Dichotomy (n.) A cutting in two; a division.

Dichotomy (n.) Division or distribution of genera into two species; division into two subordinate parts.

Dichotomy (n.) That phase of the moon in which it appears bisected, or shows only half its disk, as at the quadratures.

Dichotomy (n.) Successive division and subdivision, as of a stem of a plant or a vein of the body, into two parts as it proceeds from its origin; successive bifurcation.

Dichotomy (n.) The place where a stem or vein is forked.

Dichotomy (n.) Division into two; especially, the division of a class into two subclasses opposed to each other by contradiction, as the division of the term man into white and not white.

Dichroic (a.) Having the property of dichroism; as, a dichroic crystal.

Dichroiscope (n.) Same as Dichroscope.

Dichroism (n.) The property of presenting different colors by transmitted light, when viewed in two different directions, the colors being unlike in the direction of unlike or unequal axes.

Dichroite (n.) Iolite; -- so called from its presenting two different colors when viewed in two different directions. See Iolite.

Dichroitic (a.) Dichroic.

Dichromate (n.) A salt of chromic acid containing two equivalents of the acid radical to one of the base; -- called also bichromate.

Dichromatic (a.) Having or exhibiting two colors.

Dichromatic (a.) Having two color varieties, or two phases differing in color, independently of age or sex, as in certain birds and insects.

Dichromatism (n.) The state of being dichromatic.

Dichromic (a.) Furnishing or giving two colors; -- said of defective vision, in which all the compound colors are resolvable into two elements instead of three.

Dichroous (a.) Dichroic.

Dichroscope (n.) An instrument for examining the dichroism of crystals.

Dichroscopic (a.) Pertaining to the dichroscope, or to observations with it.

Dicing (n.) An ornamenting in squares or cubes.

Dicing (n.) Gambling with dice.

Dickcissel (n.) The American black-throated bunting (Spiza Americana).

Dickens (n. / interj.) The devil.

Dicker (n.) The number or quantity of ten, particularly ten hides or skins; a dakir; as, a dicker of gloves.

Dicker (n.) A chaffering, barter, or exchange, of small wares; as, to make a dicker.

Dicker (v. i. & t.) To negotiate a dicker; to barter.

Dickey (n.) Alt. of Dicky

Dicky (n.) A seat behind a carriage, for a servant.

Dicky (n.) A false shirt front or bosom.

Dicky (n.) A gentleman's shirt collar.

Diclinic (a.) Having two of the intersections between the three axes oblique. See Crystallization.

Diclinous (a.) Having the stamens and pistils in separate flowers.

Dicoccous (a.) Composed of two coherent, one-seeded carpels; as, a dicoccous capsule.

Dicotyledon (n.) A plant whose seeds divide into two seed lobes, or cotyledons, in germinating.

Dicotyledonous (a.) Having two cotyledons or seed lobes; as, a dicotyledonous plant.

Dicrotal (a.) Alt. of Dicrotous

Dicrotous (a.) Dicrotic.

Dicrotic (a.) Of or pertaining to dicrotism; as, a dicrotic pulse.

Dicrotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the second expansion of the artery in the dicrotic pulse; as, the dicrotic wave.

Dicrotism (n.) A condition in which there are two beats or waves of the arterial pulse to each beat of the heart.

Dicta (n. pl.) See Dictum.

Dictamen (n.) A dictation or dictate.

Dictamnus (n.) A suffrutescent, D. Fraxinella (the only species), with strong perfume and showy flowers. The volatile oil of the leaves is highly inflammable.

Dictated (imp. & p. p.) of Dictate

Dictating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dictate

Dictate (v. t.) To tell or utter so that another may write down; to inspire; to compose; as, to dictate a letter to an amanuensis.

Dictate (v. t.) To say; to utter; to communicate authoritatively; to deliver (a command) to a subordinate; to declare with authority; to impose; as, to dictate the terms of a treaty; a general dictates orders to his troops.

Dictate (v. i.) To speak as a superior; to command; to impose conditions (on).

Dictate (v. i.) To compose literary works; to tell what shall be written or said by another.

Dictate (v. t.) A statement delivered with authority; an order; a command; an authoritative rule, principle, or maxim; a prescription; as, listen to the dictates of your conscience; the dictates of the gospel.

Dictation (n.) The act of dictating; the act or practice of prescribing; also that which is dictated.

Dictation (n.) The speaking to, or the giving orders to, in an overbearing manner; authoritative utterance; as, his habit, even with friends, was that of dictation.

Dictator (n.) One who dictates; one who prescribes rules and maxims authoritatively for the direction of others.

Dictator (n.) One invested with absolute authority; especially, a magistrate created in times of exigence and distress, and invested with unlimited power.

Dictatorial (a.) Pertaining or suited to a dictator; absolute.

Dictatorial (a.) Characteristic of a dictator; imperious; dogmatical; overbearing; as, a dictatorial tone or manner.

Dictatorian (a.) Dictatorial.

Dictatorship (n.) The office, or the term of office, of a dictator; hence, absolute power.

Dictatory (a.) Dogmatical; overbearing; dictatorial.

Dictatress (n.) A woman who dictates or commands.

Dictatrix (n.) A dictatress.

Dictature (n.) Office of a dictator; dictatorship.

Diction (n.) Choice of words for the expression of ideas; the construction, disposition, and application of words in discourse, with regard to clearness, accuracy, variety, etc.; mode of expression; language; as, the diction of Chaucer's poems.

Dictionalrian (n.) A lexicographer.

Dictionaries (pl. ) of Dictionary

Dictionary (n.) A book containing the words of a language, arranged alphabetically, with explanations of their meanings; a lexicon; a vocabulary; a wordbook.

Dictionary (n.) Hence, a book containing the words belonging to any system or province of knowledge, arranged alphabetically; as, a dictionary of medicine or of botany; a biographical dictionary.

Dicta (pl. ) of Dictum

Dictums (pl. ) of Dictum

Dictum (n.) An authoritative statement; a dogmatic saying; an apothegm.

Dictum (n.) A judicial opinion expressed by judges on points that do not necessarily arise in the case, and are not involved in it.

Dictum (n.) The report of a judgment made by one of the judges who has given it.

Dictum (n.) An arbitrament or award.

Dictyogen (n.) A plant with net-veined leaves, and monocotyledonous embryos, belonging to the class Dictyogenae, proposed by Lindley for the orders Dioscoreaceae, Smilaceae, Trilliaceae, etc.

Dicyanide (n.) A compound of a binary type containing two cyanogen groups or radicals; -- called also bicyanide.

Dicyemata (n. pl.) An order of worms parasitic in cephalopods. They are remarkable for the extreme simplicity of their structure. The embryo exists in two forms.

Dicyemid (a.) Like or belonging to the Dicyemata.

Dicyemid (n.) One of the Dicyemata.

Dicynodont (n.) One of a group of extinct reptiles having the jaws armed with a horny beak, as in turtles, and in the genus Dicynodon, supporting also a pair of powerful tusks. Their remains are found in triassic strata of South Africa and India.

Did () imp. of Do.

Didactic (a.) Alt. of Didactical

Didactical (a.) Fitted or intended to teach; conveying instruction; preceptive; instructive; teaching some moral lesson; as, didactic essays.

Didactic (n.) A treatise on teaching or education.

Didactically (adv.) In a didactic manner.

Didacticism (n.) The didactic method or system.

Didacticity (n.) Aptitude for teaching.

Didactics (n.) The art or science of teaching.

Didactyl (n.) An animal having only two digits.

Didactylous (a.) Having only two digits; two-toed.

Didal (n.) A kind of triangular spade.

Didapper (n.) See Dabchick.

Didascalar (a.) Didascalic.

Didascalic (a.) Didactic; preceptive.

Diddle (v. i.) To totter, as a child in walking.

Diddle (v. t.) To cheat or overreach.

Diddler (n.) A cheat.

Didelphia (n. pl.) The subclass of Mammalia which includes the marsupials. See Marsupialia.

Didelphian (a.) Of or relating to the Didelphia.

Didelphian (n.) One of the Didelphia.

Didelphic (a.) Having the uterus double; of or pertaining to the Didelphia.

Didelphid (a.) Same as Didelphic.

Didelphid (n.) A marsupial animal.

Didelphous (a.) Didelphic.

Didelphyc (a.) Same as Didelphic.

Didelphous (n.) Formerly, any marsupial; but the term is now restricted to an American genus which includes the opossums, of which there are many species. See Opossum. [Written also Didelphis.] See Illustration in Appendix.

Didine (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Didus, or the dodo.

Didos (pl. ) of Dido

Dido (n.) A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper.

Didonia (n.) The curve which on a given surface and with a given perimeter contains the greatest area.

Didrachm (n.) Alt. of Didrachma

Didrachma (n.) A two-drachma piece; an ancient Greek silver coin, worth nearly forty cents.

Didst () the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do.

Diducement (n.) Diduction; separation into distinct parts.

Diduction (n.) The act of drawing apart; separation.

Didym (n.) See Didymium.

Didymium (n.) A rare metallic substance usually associated with the metal cerium; -- hence its name. It was formerly supposed to be an element, but has since been found to consist of two simpler elementary substances, neodymium and praseodymium. See Neodymium, and Praseodymium.

Didymous (a.) Growing in pairs or twins.

Didynamia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having four stamens disposed in pairs of unequal length.

Didynamian (a.) Didynamous.

Didynamous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Didynamia; containing four stamens disposed in pairs of unequal length.

Died (imp. & p. p.) of Die

Dying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Die

Die (v. i.) To pass from an animate to a lifeless state; to cease to live; to suffer a total and irreparable loss of action of the vital functions; to become dead; to expire; to perish; -- said of animals and vegetables; often with of, by, with, from, and rarely for, before the cause or occasion of death; as, to die of disease or hardships; to die by fire or the sword; to die with horror at the thought.

Die (v. i.) To suffer death; to lose life.

Die (v. i.) To perish in any manner; to cease; to become lost or extinct; to be extinguished.

Die (v. i.) To sink; to faint; to pine; to languish, with weakness, discouragement, love, etc.

Die (v. i.) To become indifferent; to cease to be subject; as, to die to pleasure or to sin.

Die (v. i.) To recede and grow fainter; to become imperceptible; to vanish; -- often with out or away.

Die (v. i.) To disappear gradually in another surface, as where moldings are lost in a sloped or curved face.

Die (v. i.) To become vapid, flat, or spiritless, as liquor.

Dice (pl. ) of Die

Dies (pl. ) of Die

Die (n.) A small cube, marked on its faces with spots from one to six, and used in playing games by being shaken in a box and thrown from it. See Dice.

Die (n.) Any small cubical or square body.

Die (n.) That which is, or might be, determined, by a throw of the die; hazard; chance.

Die (n.) That part of a pedestal included between base and cornice; the dado.

Die (n.) A metal or plate (often one of a pair) so cut or shaped as to give a certain desired form to, or impress any desired device on, an object or surface, by pressure or by a blow; used in forging metals, coining, striking up sheet metal, etc.

Die (n.) A perforated block, commonly of hardened steel used in connection with a punch, for punching holes, as through plates, or blanks from plates, or for forming cups or capsules, as from sheet metal, by drawing.

Die (n.) A hollow internally threaded screw-cutting tool, made in one piece or composed of several parts, for forming screw threads on bolts, etc.; one of the separate parts which make up such a tool.

Diecian (a.) Alt. of Diecious

Diecious (a.) See Dioecian, and Dioecious.

Diedral (a.) The same as Dihedral.

Diegesis (n.) A narrative or history; a recital or relation.

Dielectric (n.) Any substance or medium that transmits the electric force by a process different from conduction, as in the phenomena of induction; a nonconductor. separating a body electrified by induction, from the electrifying body.

Dielytra (n.) See Dicentra.

Diencephalon (n.) The interbrain or thalamencephalon; -- sometimes abbreviated to dien. See Thalamencephalon.

Dieresis (n.) Same as Diaeresis.

Diesinker (n.) An engraver of dies for stamping coins, medals, etc.

Diesinking (n.) The process of engraving dies.

Dieses (pl. ) of Diesis

Diesis (n.) A small interval, less than any in actual practice, but used in the mathematical calculation of intervals.

Diesis (n.) The mark /; -- called also double dagger.

Dies Irae () Day of wrath; -- the name and beginning of a famous mediaeval Latin hymn on the Last Judgment.

Dies juridici (pl. ) of Dies juridicus

Dies juridicus () A court day.

Dies non () A day on which courts are not held, as Sunday or any legal holiday.

Diestock (n.) A stock to hold the dies used for cutting screws.

Diet (n.) Course of living or nourishment; what is eaten and drunk habitually; food; victuals; fare.

Diet (n.) A course of food selected with reference to a particular state of health; prescribed allowance of food; regimen prescribed.

Dieted (imp. & p. p.) of Diet

Dieting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diet

Diet (v. t.) To cause to take food; to feed.

Diet (v. t.) To cause to eat and drink sparingly, or by prescribed rules; to regulate medicinally the food of.

Diet (v. i.) To eat; to take one's meals.

Diet (v. i.) To eat according to prescribed rules; to ear sparingly; as, the doctor says he must diet.

Diet (n.) A legislative or administrative assembly in Germany, Poland, and some other countries of Europe; a deliberative convention; a council; as, the Diet of Worms, held in 1521.

Dietarian (n.) One who lives in accordance with prescribed rules for diet; a dieter.

Dietary (a.) Pertaining to diet, or to the rules of diet.

Dietaries (pl. ) of Dietary

Dietary (n.) A rule of diet; a fixed allowance of food, as in workhouse, prison, etc.

Dieter (n.) One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food, according to hygienic rules.

Dietetic (a.) Alt. of Dietetical

Dietetical (a.) Of or performance to diet, or to the rules for regulating the kind and quantity of food to be eaten.

Dietetically (adv.) In a dietetical manner.

Dietetics (n.) That part of the medical or hygienic art which relates to diet or food; rules for diet.

Dietetist (n.) A physician who applies the rules of dietetics to the cure of diseases.

Diethylamine (n.) A colorless, volatile, alkaline liquid, NH(C2H5)2, having a strong fishy odor resembling that of herring or sardines. Cf. Methylamine.

Dietic (a.) Dietetic.

Dietical (a.) Dietetic.

Dietine (n.) A subordinate or local assembly; a diet of inferior rank.

Dietist (n.) Alt. of Dietitian

Dietitian (n.) One skilled in dietetics.

Diffame (n.) Evil name; bad reputation; defamation.

Diffarreation (n.) A form of divorce, among the ancient Romans, in which a cake was used. See Confarreation.

Differed (imp. & p. p.) of Differ

Differing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Differ

Differ (v. i.) To be or stand apart; to disagree; to be unlike; to be distinguished; -- with from.

Differ (v. i.) To be of unlike or opposite opinion; to disagree in sentiment; -- often with from or with.

Differ (v. i.) To have a difference, cause of variance, or quarrel; to dispute; to contend.

Differ (v. t.) To cause to be different or unlike; to set at variance.

Difference (n.) The act of differing; the state or measure of being different or unlike; distinction; dissimilarity; unlikeness; variation; as, a difference of quality in paper; a difference in degrees of heat, or of light; what is the difference between the innocent and the guilty?

Difference (n.) Disagreement in opinion; dissension; controversy; quarrel; hence, cause of dissension; matter in controversy.

Difference (n.) That by which one thing differs from another; that which distinguishes or causes to differ; mark of distinction; characteristic quality; specific attribute.

Difference (n.) Choice; preference.

Difference (n.) An addition to a coat of arms to distinguish the bearings of two persons, which would otherwise be the same. See Augmentation, and Marks of cadency, under Cadency.

Difference (n.) The quality or attribute which is added to those of the genus to constitute a species; a differentia.

Difference (n.) The quantity by which one quantity differs from another, or the remainder left after subtracting the one from the other.

Differenced (imp. & p. p.) of Difference

Differencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Difference

Difference (v. t.) To cause to differ; to make different; to mark as different; to distinguish.

Different (a.) Distinct; separate; not the same; other.

Different (a.) Of various or contrary nature, form, or quality; partially or totally unlike; dissimilar; as, different kinds of food or drink; different states of health; different shapes; different degrees of excellence.

Differentiae (pl. ) of Differentia

Differentia (n.) The formal or distinguishing part of the essence of a species; the characteristic attribute of a species; specific difference.

Differential (a.) Relating to or indicating a difference; creating a difference; discriminating; special; as, differential characteristics; differential duties; a differential rate.

Differential (a.) Of or pertaining to a differential, or to differentials.

Differential (a.) Relating to differences of motion or leverage; producing effects by such differences; said of mechanism.

Differential (n.) An increment, usually an indefinitely small one, which is given to a variable quantity.

Differential (n.) A small difference in rates which competing railroad lines, in establishing a common tariff, allow one of their number to make, in order to get a fair share of the business. The lower rate is called a differential rate. Differentials are also sometimes granted to cities.

Differential (n.) One of two coils of conducting wire so related to one another or to a magnet or armature common to both, that one coil produces polar action contrary to that of the other.

Differential (n.) A form of conductor used for dividing and distributing the current to a series of electric lamps so as to maintain equal action in all.

Differentially (adv.) In the way of differentiation.

Differentiate (v. t.) To distinguish or mark by a specific difference; to effect a difference in, as regards classification; to develop differential characteristics in; to specialize; to desynonymize.

Differentiate (v. t.) To express the specific difference of; to describe the properties of (a thing) whereby it is differenced from another of the same class; to discriminate.

Differentiate (v. t.) To obtain the differential, or differential coefficient, of; as, to differentiate an algebraic expression, or an equation.

Differentiate (v. i.) To acquire a distinct and separate character.

Differentiation (n.) The act of differentiating.

Differentiation (n.) The act of distinguishing or describing a thing, by giving its different, or specific difference; exact definition or determination.

Differentiation (n.) The gradual formation or production of organs or parts by a process of evolution or development, as when the seed develops the root and the stem, the initial stem develops the leaf, branches, and flower buds; or in animal life, when the germ evolves the digestive and other organs and members, or when the animals as they advance in organization acquire special organs for specific purposes.

Differentiation (n.) The supposed act or tendency in being of every kind, whether organic or inorganic, to assume or produce a more complex structure or functions.

Differentiator (n.) One who, or that which, differentiates.

Differently (adv.) In a different manner; variously.

Differingly (adv.) In a differing or different manner.

Difficile (a.) Difficult; hard to manage; stubborn.

Difficilitate (v. t.) To make difficult.

Difficult (a.) Hard to do or to make; beset with difficulty; attended with labor, trouble, or pains; not easy; arduous.

Difficult (a.) Hard to manage or to please; not easily wrought upon; austere; stubborn; as, a difficult person.

Difficult (v. t.) To render difficult; to impede; to perplex.

Difficultate (v. t.) To render difficult; to difficilitate.

Difficultly (adv.) With difficulty.

Difficultness (n.) Difficulty.

Difficulties (pl. ) of Difficulty

Difficulty (n.) The state of being difficult, or hard to do; hardness; arduousness; -- opposed to easiness or facility; as, the difficulty of a task or enterprise; a work of difficulty.

Difficulty (n.) Something difficult; a thing hard to do or to understand; that which occasions labor or perplexity, and requires skill and perseverance to overcome, solve, or achieve; a hard enterprise; an obstacle; an impediment; as, the difficulties of a science; difficulties in theology.

Difficulty (n.) A controversy; a falling out; a disagreement; an objection; a cavil.

Difficulty (n.) Embarrassment of affairs, especially financial affairs; -- usually in the plural; as, to be in difficulties.

Diffide (v. i.) To be distrustful.

Diffidence (n.) The state of being diffident; distrust; want of confidence; doubt of the power, ability, or disposition of others.

Diffidence (n.) Distrust of one's self or one's own powers; lack of self-reliance; modesty; modest reserve; bashfulness.

Diffidency (n.) See Diffidence.

Diffident (a.) Wanting confidence in others; distrustful.

Diffident (a.) Wanting confidence in one's self; distrustful of one's own powers; not self-reliant; timid; modest; bashful; characterized by modest reserve.

Diffidently (adv.) In a diffident manner.

Diffind (v. t.) To split.

Diffine (v. t.) To define.

Diffinitive (a.) Definitive; determinate; final.

Diffission (n.) Act of cleaving or splitting.

Difflation (n.) A blowing apart or away.

Diffluence (n.) Alt. of Diffluency

Diffluency (n.) A flowing off on all sides; fluidity.

Diffluent (a.) Flowing apart or off; dissolving; not fixed.

Difform (a.) Irregular in form; -- opposed to uniform; anomalous; hence, unlike; dissimilar; as, to difform corolla, the parts of which do not correspond in size or proportion; difform leaves.

Difformity (n.) Irregularity of form; diversity of form; want of uniformity.

Diffracted (imp. & p. p.) of Diffract

Diffracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diffract

Diffract (v. t.) To break or separate into parts; to deflect, or decompose by deflection, a/ rays of light.

Diffraction (n.) The deflection and decomposition of light in passing by the edges of opaque bodies or through narrow slits, causing the appearance of parallel bands or fringes of prismatic colors, as by the action of a grating of fine lines or bars.

Diffractive (a.) That produces diffraction.

Diffranchise () Alt. of Diffranchisement

Diffranchisement () See Disfranchise, Disfranchisement.

Diffusate (n.) Material which, in the process of catalysis, has diffused or passed through the separating membrane.

Diffused (imp. & p. p.) of Diffuse

Diffusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diffuse

Diffuse (v. t.) To pour out and cause to spread, as a fluid; to cause to flow on all sides; to send out, or extend, in all directions; to spread; to circulate; to disseminate; to scatter; as to diffuse information.

Diffuse (v. i.) To pass by spreading every way, to diffuse itself.

Diffuse (a.) Poured out; widely spread; not restrained; copious; full; esp., of style, opposed to concise or terse; verbose; prolix; as, a diffuse style; a diffuse writer.

Diffused (a.) Spread abroad; dispersed; loose; flowing; diffuse.

Diffusely (adv.) In a diffuse manner.

Diffuseness (n.) The quality of being diffuse; especially, in writing, the use of a great or excessive number of word to express the meaning; copiousness; verbosity; prolixity.

Diffuser (n.) One who, or that which, diffuses.

Diffusibility (n.) The quality of being diffusible; capability of being poured or spread out.

Diffusible (a.) Capable of flowing or spreading in all directions; that may be diffused.

Diffusible (a.) Capable of passing through animal membranes by osmosis.

Diffusibleness (n.) Diffusibility.

Diffusion (n.) The act of diffusing, or the state of being diffused; a spreading; extension; dissemination; circulation; dispersion.

Diffusion (n.) The act of passing by osmosis through animal membranes, as in the distribution of poisons, gases, etc., through the body. Unlike absorption, diffusion may go on after death, that is, after the blood ceases to circulate.

Diffusive (a.) Having the quality of diffusing; capable of spreading every way by flowing; spreading widely; widely reaching; copious; diffuse.

Diffusively (adv.) In a diffusive manner.

Diffusiveness (n.) The quality or state of being diffusive or diffuse; extensiveness; expansion; dispersion. Especially of style: Diffuseness; want of conciseness; prolixity.

Diffusivity (n.) Tendency to become diffused; tendency, as of heat, to become equalized by spreading through a conducting medium.

Dug (imp. & p. p.) of Dig

Digged () of Dig

Digging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dig

Dig (v. t.) To turn up, or delve in, (earth) with a spade or a hoe; to open, loosen, or break up (the soil) with a spade, or other sharp instrument; to pierce, open, or loosen, as if with a spade.

Dig (v. t.) To get by digging; as, to dig potatoes, or gold.

Dig (v. t.) To hollow out, as a well; to form, as a ditch, by removing earth; to excavate; as, to dig a ditch or a well.

Dig (v. t.) To thrust; to poke.

Dig (v. i.) To work with a spade or other like implement; to do servile work; to delve.

Dig (v. i.) To take ore from its bed, in distinction from making excavations in search of ore.

Dig (v. i.) To work like a digger; to study ploddingly and laboriously.

Dig (n.) A thrust; a punch; a poke; as, a dig in the side or the ribs. See Dig, v. t., 4.

Dig (v. t.) A plodding and laborious student.

Digamist (n.) One who marries a second time; a deuterogamist.

Digamma (n.) A letter (/, /) of the Greek alphabet, which early fell into disuse.

Digammate (a.) Alt. of Digammated

Digammated (a.) Having the digamma or its representative letter or sound; as, the Latin word vis is a digammated form of the Greek /.

Digamous (a.) Pertaining to a second marriage, that is, one after the death of the first wife or the first husband.

Digamy (n.) Act, or state, of being twice married; deuterogamy.

Digastric (a.) Having two bellies; biventral; -- applied to muscles which are fleshy at each end and have a tendon in the middle, and esp. to the muscle which pulls down the lower jaw.

Digastric (a.) Pertaining to the digastric muscle of the lower jaw; as, the digastric nerves.

Digenea (n. pl.) A division of Trematoda in which alternate generations occur, the immediate young not resembling their parents.

Digenesis (n.) The faculty of multiplying in two ways; -- by ova fecundated by spermatic fluid, and asexually, as by buds. See Parthenogenesis.

Digenous (a.) Sexually reproductive.

Digerent () Digesting.

Digested (imp. & p. p.) of Digest

Digesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Digest

Digest (v. t.) To distribute or arrange methodically; to work over and classify; to reduce to portions for ready use or application; as, to digest the laws, etc.

Digest (v. t.) To separate (the food) in its passage through the alimentary canal into the nutritive and nonnutritive elements; to prepare, by the action of the digestive juices, for conversion into blood; to convert into chyme.

Digest (v. t.) To think over and arrange methodically in the mind; to reduce to a plan or method; to receive in the mind and consider carefully; to get an understanding of; to comprehend.

Digest (v. t.) To appropriate for strengthening and comfort.

Digest (v. t.) Hence: To bear comfortably or patiently; to be reconciled to; to brook.

Digest (v. t.) To soften by heat and moisture; to expose to a gentle heat in a boiler or matrass, as a preparation for chemical operations.

Digest (v. t.) To dispose to suppurate, or generate healthy pus, as an ulcer or wound.

Digest (v. t.) To ripen; to mature.

Digest (v. t.) To quiet or abate, as anger or grief.

Digest (v. i.) To undergo digestion; as, food digests well or ill.

Digest (v. i.) To suppurate; to generate pus, as an ulcer.

Digest (v. t.) That which is digested; especially, that which is worked over, classified, and arranged under proper heads or titles

Digest (v. t.) A compilation of statutes or decisions analytically arranged. The term is applied in a general sense to the Pandects of Justinian (see Pandect), but is also specially given by authors to compilations of laws on particular topics; a summary of laws; as, Comyn's Digest; the United States Digest.

Digestedly (adv.) In a digested or well-arranged manner; methodically.

Digester (n.) One who digests.

Digester (n.) A medicine or an article of food that aids digestion, or strengthens digestive power.

Digester (n.) A strong closed vessel, in which bones or other substances may be subjected, usually in water or other liquid, to a temperature above that of boiling, in order to soften them.

Digestibility (n.) The quality of being digestible.

Digestible (a.) Capable of being digested.

Digestibleness (n.) The quality of being digestible; digestibility.

Digestion (n.) The act or process of digesting; reduction to order; classification; thoughtful consideration.

Digestion (n.) The conversion of food, in the stomach and intestines, into soluble and diffusible products, capable of being absorbed by the blood.

Digestion (n.) Generation of pus; suppuration.

Digestive (a.) Pertaining to digestion; having the power to cause or promote digestion; as, the digestive ferments.

Digestive (n.) That which aids digestion, as a food or medicine.

Digestive (n.) A substance which, when applied to a wound or ulcer, promotes suppuration.

Digestive (n.) A tonic.

Digestor (n.) See Digester.

Digesture (n.) Digestion.

Diggable (a.) Capable of being dug.

Digger (n.) One who, or that which, digs.

Diggers (n. pl.) A degraded tribe of California Indians; -- so called from their practice of digging roots for food.

Digging (n.) The act or the place of excavating.

Digging (n.) Places where ore is dug; especially, certain localities in California, Australia, and elsewhere, at which gold is obtained.

Digging (n.) Region; locality.

Dight (imp. & p. p.) of Dight

Dighted () of Dight

Dighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dight

Dight (v. t.) To prepare; to put in order; hence, to dress, or put on; to array; to adorn.

Dight (v. t.) To have sexual intercourse with.

Dighter (n.) One who dights.

Digit (n.) One of the terminal divisions of a limb appendage; a finger or toe.

Digit (n.) A finger's breadth, commonly estimated to be three fourths of an inch.

Digit (n.) One of the ten figures or symbols, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, by which all numbers are expressed; -- so called because of the use of the fingers in counting and computing.

Digit (n.) One twelfth part of the diameter of the sun or moon; -- a term used to express the quantity of an eclipse; as, an eclipse of eight digits is one which hides two thirds of the diameter of the disk.

Digit (v. t.) To point at or out with the finger.

Digital (a.) Of or performance to the fingers, or to digits; done with the fingers; as, digital compression; digital examination.

Digitain (n.) Any one of several extracts of foxglove (Digitalis), as the French extract, the German extract, etc., which differ among themselves in composition and properties.

Digitain (n.) A supposedly distinct vegetable principle as the essential ingredient of the extracts. It is a white, crystalline substance, and is regarded as a glucoside.

Digitalis (n.) A genus of plants including the foxglove.

Digitalis (n.) The dried leaves of the purple foxglove (Digitalis purpurea), used in heart disease, disturbance of the circulation, etc.

Digitate (v. t.) To point out as with the finger.

Digitate (a.) Alt. of Digitated

Digitated (a.) Having several leaflets arranged, like the fingers of the hand, at the extremity of a stem or petiole. Also, in general, characterized by digitation.

Digitation (n.) A division into fingers or fingerlike processes; also, a fingerlike process.

Digitiform (a.) Formed like a finger or fingers; finger-shaped; as, a digitiform root.

Digitigrade (a.) Walking on the toes; -- distinguished from plantigrade.

Digitigrade (n.) An animal that walks on its toes, as the cat, lion, wolf, etc.; -- distinguished from a plantigrade, which walks on the palm of the foot.

Digitipartite (a.) Parted like the fingers.

Digitize (v. t.) To finger; as, to digitize a pen.

Digitorium (n.) A small dumb keyboard used by pianists for exercising the fingers; -- called also dumb piano.

Digitule (n.) A little finger or toe, or something resembling one.

Digladiate (v. i.) To fight like gladiators; to contend fiercely; to dispute violently.

Digladiation (n.) Act of digladiating.

Diglottism (n.) Bilingualism.

Diglyph (n.) A projecting face like the triglyph, but having only two channels or grooves sunk in it.

Dignation (n.) The act of thinking worthy; honor.

Digne (a.) Worthy; honorable; deserving.

Digne (a.) Suitable; adequate; fit.

Digne (a.) Haughty; disdainful.

Dignification (n.) The act of dignifying; exaltation.

Dignified (a.) Marked with dignity; stately; as, a dignified judge.

Dignified (imp. & p. p.) of Dignify

Dignifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dignify

Dignify (v. t.) To invest with dignity or honor; to make illustrious; to give distinction to; to exalt in rank; to honor.

Dignitaries (pl. ) of Dignitary

Dignitary (n.) One who possesses exalted rank or holds a position of dignity or honor; especially, one who holds an ecclesiastical rank above that of a parochial priest or clergyman.

Dignities (pl. ) of Dignity

Dignity (n.) The state of being worthy or honorable; elevation of mind or character; true worth; excellence.

Dignity (n.) Elevation; grandeur.

Dignity (n.) Elevated rank; honorable station; high office, political or ecclesiastical; degree of excellence; preferment; exaltation.

Dignity (n.) Quality suited to inspire respect or reverence; loftiness and grace; impressiveness; stateliness; -- said of //en, manner, style, etc.

Dignity (n.) One holding high rank; a dignitary.

Dignity (n.) Fundamental principle; axiom; maxim.

Dignotion (n.) Distinguishing mark; diagnostic.

Digonous (a.) Having two angles.

Digram (n.) A digraph.

Digraph (n.) Two signs or characters combined to express a single articulated sound; as ea in head, or th in bath.

Digraphic (a.) Of or pertaining to a digraph.

Digressed (imp. & p. p.) of Digress

Digressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Digress

Digress (v. i.) To step or turn aside; to deviate; to swerve; especially, to turn aside from the main subject of attention, or course of argument, in writing or speaking.

Digress (v. i.) To turn aside from the right path; to transgress; to offend.

Digress (n.) Digression.

Digression (n.) The act of digressing or deviating, esp. from the main subject of a discourse; hence, a part of a discourse deviating from its main design or subject.

Digression (n.) A turning aside from the right path; transgression; offense.

Digression (n.) The elongation, or angular distance from the sun; -- said chiefly of the inferior planets.

Digressional (a.) Pertaining to, or having the character of, a digression; departing from the main purpose or subject.

Digressive (a.) Departing from the main subject; partaking of the nature of digression.

Digressively (adv.) By way of digression.

Digue (n.) A bank; a dike.

Digynia (n.) A Linnaean order of plants having two styles.

Digynian (a.) Alt. of Digynous

Digynous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Digynia; having two styles.

Dihedral (a.) Having two plane faces; as, the dihedral summit of a crystal.

Dihedron (n.) A figure with two sides or surfaces.

Dihexagonal (a.) Consisting of two hexagonal parts united; thus, a dihexagonal pyramid is composed of two hexagonal pyramids placed base to base.

Dihexagonal (a.) Having twelve similar faces; as, a dihexagonal prism.

Diiamb (n.) A diiambus.

Diiambus (n.) A double iambus; a foot consisting of two iambuses (/ / / /).

Diiodide (n.) A compound of a binary type containing two atoms of iodine; -- called also biniodide.

Diisatogen (n.) A red crystalline nitrogenous substance or artificial production, which by reduction passes directly to indigo.

Dijudicant (n.) One who dijudicates.

Dijudicated (imp. & p. p.) of Dijudicate

Dijucating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dijudicate

Dijudicate (v. i.) To make a judicial decision; to decide; to determine.

Dijudication (n.) The act of dijudicating; judgment.

Dika (n.) A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the Irvingia Barteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- called also dika bread.

Dike (n.) A ditch; a channel for water made by digging.

Dike (n.) An embankment to prevent inundations; a levee.

Dike (n.) A wall of turf or stone.

Dike (n.) A wall-like mass of mineral matter, usually an intrusion of igneous rocks, filling up rents or fissures in the original strata.

Diked (imp. & p. p.) of Dike

Diking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dike

Dike (v. t.) To surround or protect with a dike or dry bank; to secure with a bank.

Dike (v. t.) To drain by a dike or ditch.

Dike (v. i.) To work as a ditcher; to dig.

Diker (n.) A ditcher.

Diker (n.) One who builds stone walls; usually, one who builds them without lime.

Dilacerated (imp. & p. p.) of Dilacerate

Dilacerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dilacerate

Dilacerate (v. t.) To rend asunder; to tear to pieces.

Dilaceration (n.) The act of rending asunder.

Dilaniate (v. t.) To rend in pieces; to tear.

Dilaniation (n.) A rending or tearing in pieces; dilaceration.

Dilapidated (imp. & p. p.) of Dilapidate

Dilapidating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dilapidate

Dilapidate (v. t.) To bring into a condition of decay or partial ruin, by misuse or through neglect; to destroy the fairness and good condition of; -- said of a building.

Dilapidate (v. t.) To impair by waste and abuse; to squander.

Dilapidate (v. i.) To get out of repair; to fall into partial ruin; to become decayed; as, the church was suffered to dilapidate.

Dilapidated (a.) Decayed; fallen into partial ruin; injured by bad usage or neglect.

Dilapidation (n.) The act of dilapidating, or the state of being dilapidated, reduced to decay, partially ruined, or squandered.

Dilapidation (n.) Ecclesiastical waste; impairing of church property by an incumbent, through neglect or by intention.

Dilapidation (n.) The pulling down of a building, or suffering it to fall or be in a state of decay.

Dilapidator (n.) One who causes dilapidation.

Dilatability (n.) The quality of being dilatable, or admitting expansion; -- opposed to contractibility.

Dilatable (a.) Capable of expansion; that may be dilated; -- opposed to contractible; as, the lungs are dilatable by the force of air; air is dilatable by heat.

Dilatation (n.) Prolixity; diffuse discourse.

Dilatation (n.) The act of dilating; expansion; an enlarging on al/ sides; the state of being dilated; dilation.

Dilatation (n.) A dilation or enlargement of a canal or other organ.

Dilatator (n.) A muscle which dilates any part; a dilator.

Dilated (imp. & p. p.) of Dilate

Dilating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dilate

Dilate (v. t.) To expand; to distend; to enlarge or extend in all directions; to swell; -- opposed to contract; as, the air dilates the lungs; air is dilated by increase of heat.

Dilate (v. t.) To enlarge upon; to relate at large; to tell copiously or diffusely.

Dilate (v. i.) To grow wide; to expand; to swell or extend in all directions.

Dilate (v. i.) To speak largely and copiously; to dwell in narration; to enlarge; -- with on or upon.

Dilate (a.) Extensive; expanded.

Dilated (a.) Expanded; enlarged.

Dilated (a.) Widening into a lamina or into lateral winglike appendages.

Dilated (a.) Having the margin wide and spreading.

Dilatedly (adv.) In a dilated manner.

Dilater (n.) One who, or that which, dilates, expands, o r enlarges.

Dilation (n.) Delay.

Dilation (n.) The act of dilating, or the state of being dilated; expansion; dilatation.

Dilative (a.) Causing dilation; tending to dilate, on enlarge; expansive.

Dilatometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the dilatation or expansion of a substance, especially of a fluid.

Dilator (n.) One who, or that which, widens or expands.

Dilator (n.) A muscle that dilates any part.

Dilator (n.) An instrument for expanding a part; as, a urethral dilator.

Dilatorily (adv.) With delay; tardily.

Dilatoriness (n.) The quality of being dilatory; lateness; slowness; tardiness; sluggishness.

Dilatory (a.) Inclined to defer or put off what ought to be done at once; given the procrastination; delaying; procrastinating; loitering; as, a dilatory servant.

Dilatory (a.) Marked by procrastination or delay; tardy; slow; sluggish; -- said of actions or measures.

Dildo (n.) A burden in popular songs.

Dildo (n.) A columnar cactaceous plant of the West Indies (Cereus Swartzii).

Dilection (n.) Love; choice.

Dilemma (n.) An argument which presents an antagonist with two or more alternatives, but is equally conclusive against him, whichever alternative he chooses.

Dilemma (n.) A state of things in which evils or obstacles present themselves on every side, and it is difficult to determine what course to pursue; a vexatious alternative or predicament; a difficult choice or position.

Dilettant (a.) Of or pertaining to dilettanteism; amateur; as, dilettant speculation.

Dilettant (n.) A dilettante.

Dilettanti (pl. ) of Dilettante

Dilettante (v. t.) An admirer or lover of the fine arts; popularly, an amateur; especially, one who follows an art or a branch of knowledge, desultorily, or for amusement only.

Dilettanteish (a.) Somewhat like a dilettante.

Dilettanteism (n.) The state or quality of being a dilettante; the desultory pursuit of art, science, or literature.

Dilettantish (a.) Dilettanteish.

Dilettantism (n.) Same as Dilettanteism.

Diligence (n.) The quality of being diligent; carefulness; careful attention; -- the opposite of negligence.

Diligence (n.) Interested and persevering application; devoted and painstaking effort to accomplish what is undertaken; assiduity in service.

Diligence (n.) Process by which persons, lands, or effects are seized for debt; process for enforcing the attendance of witnesses or the production of writings.

Diligence (n.) A four-wheeled public stagecoach, used in France.

Diligency (n.) Diligence; care; persevering endeavor.

Diligent (a.) Prosecuted with careful attention and effort; careful; painstaking; not careless or negligent.

Diligent (a.) Interestedly and perseveringly attentive; steady and earnest in application to a subject or pursuit; assiduous; industrious.

Diligently (adv.) In a diligent manner; not carelessly; not negligently; with industry or assiduity.

Dill (n.) An herb (Peucedanum graveolens), the seeds of which are moderately warming, pungent, and aromatic, and were formerly used as a soothing medicine for children; -- called also dillseed.

Dill (a.) To still; to calm; to soothe, as one in pain.

Dilling (n.) A darling; a favorite.

Dilluing (n.) A process of sorting ore by washing in a hand sieve.

Dilly (n.) A kind of stagecoach.

Dilly-dally (v. i.) To loiter or trifle; to waste time.

Dilogical (a.) Ambiguous; of double meaning.

Dilogies (pl. ) of Dilogy

Dilogy (n.) An ambiguous speech; a figure in which a word is used an equivocal sense.

Dilucid (a.) Clear; lucid.

Dilucidate (v. t.) To elucidate.

Dilucidation (n.) The act of making clear.

Diluent (a.) Diluting; making thinner or weaker by admixture, esp. of water.

Diluent (n.) That which dilutes.

Diluent (n.) An agent used for effecting dilution of the blood; a weak drink.

Diluted (imp. & p. p.) of Dilute

Diluting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dilute

Dilute (v. t.) To make thinner or more liquid by admixture with something; to thin and dissolve by mixing.

Dilute (v. t.) To diminish the strength, flavor, color, etc., of, by mixing; to reduce, especially by the addition of water; to temper; to attenuate; to weaken.

Dilute (v. i.) To become attenuated, thin, or weak; as, it dilutes easily.

Dilute (a.) Diluted; thin; weak.

Diluted (a.) Reduced in strength; thin; weak.

Diluteness (n.) The quality or state of being dilute.

Diluter (n.) One who, or that which, dilutes or makes thin, more liquid, or weaker.

Dilution (n.) The act of diluting, or the state of being diluted.

Diluvial (a.) Of or pertaining to a flood or deluge, esp. to the great deluge in the days of Noah; diluvian.

Diluvial (a.) Effected or produced by a flood or deluge of water; -- said of coarse and imperfectly stratified deposits along ancient or existing water courses. Similar unstratified deposits were formed by the agency of ice. The time of deposition has been called the Diluvian epoch.

Diluvialist (n.) One who explains geological phenomena by the Noachian deluge.

Diluvian (a.) Of or pertaining to a deluge, esp. to the Noachian deluge; diluvial; as, of diluvian origin.

Diluviate (v. i.) To run as a flood.

Diluviums (pl. ) of Diluvium

Diluvia (pl. ) of Diluvium

Diluvium (n.) A deposit of superficial loam, sand, gravel, stones, etc., caused by former action of flowing waters, or the melting of glacial ice.

Dim (superl.) Not bright or distinct; wanting luminousness or clearness; obscure in luster or sound; dusky; darkish; obscure; indistinct; overcast; tarnished.

Dim (superl.) Of obscure vision; not seeing clearly; hence, dull of apprehension; of weak perception; obtuse.

Dimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Dim

Dimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dim

Dim (v. t.) To render dim, obscure, or dark; to make less bright or distinct; to take away the luster of; to darken; to dull; to obscure; to eclipse.

Dim (v. t.) To deprive of distinct vision; to hinder from seeing clearly, either by dazzling or clouding the eyes; to darken the senses or understanding of.

Dim (v. i.) To grow dim.

Dimble (n.) A bower; a dingle.

Dime (n.) A silver coin of the United States, of the value of ten cents; the tenth of a dollar.

Dimension (n.) Measure in a single line, as length, breadth, height, thickness, or circumference; extension; measurement; -- usually, in the plural, measure in length and breadth, or in length, breadth, and thickness; extent; size; as, the dimensions of a room, or of a ship; the dimensions of a farm, of a kingdom.

Dimension (n.) Extent; reach; scope; importance; as, a project of large dimensions.

Dimension (n.) The degree of manifoldness of a quantity; as, time is quantity having one dimension; volume has three dimensions, relative to extension.

Dimension (n.) A literal factor, as numbered in characterizing a term. The term dimensions forms with the cardinal numbers a phrase equivalent to degree with the ordinal; thus, a2b2c is a term of five dimensions, or of the fifth degree.

Dimension (n.) The manifoldness with which the fundamental units of time, length, and mass are involved in determining the units of other physical quantities.

Dimensional (a.) Pertaining to dimension.

Dimensioned (a.) Having dimensions.

Dimensionless (a.) Without dimensions; having no appreciable or noteworthy extent.

Dimensity (n.) Dimension.

Dimensive (a.) Without dimensions; marking dimensions or the limits.

Dimera (n. pl.) A division of Coleoptera, having two joints to the tarsi.

Dimera (n. pl.) A division of the Hemiptera, including the aphids.

Dimeran (n.) One of the Dimera.

Dimerous (a.) Composed of, or having, two parts of each kind.

Dimeter (a.) Having two poetical measures or meters.

Dimeter (n.) A verse of two meters.

Dimethyl (n.) Ethane; -- sometimes so called because regarded as consisting of two methyl radicals. See Ethane.

Dimetric (a.) Same as Tetragonal.

Dimication (n.) A fight; contest.

Dimidiate (a.) Divided into two equal parts; reduced to half in shape or form.

Dimidiate (a.) Consisting of only one half of what the normal condition requires; having the appearance of lacking one half; as, a dimidiate leaf, which has only one side developed.

Dimidiate (a.) Having the organs of one side, or half, different in function from the corresponding organs on the other side; as, dimidiate hermaphroditism.

Dimidiated (imp. & p. p.) of Dimidiate

Dimidiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dimidiate

Dimidiate (v. t.) To divide into two equal parts.

Dimidiate (v. t.) To represent the half of; to halve.

Dimidiation (n.) The act of dimidiating or halving; the state of being dimidiate.

Diminished (imp. & p. p.) of Diminish

Diminishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diminish

Diminish (v. t.) To make smaller in any manner; to reduce in bulk or amount; to lessen; -- opposed to augment or increase.

Diminish (v. t.) To lessen the authority or dignity of; to put down; to degrade; to abase; to weaken.

Diminish (v. t.) To make smaller by a half step; to make (an interval) less than minor; as, a diminished seventh.

Diminish (v. t.) To take away; to subtract.

Diminish (v. i.) To become or appear less or smaller; to lessen; as, the apparent size of an object diminishes as we recede from it.

Diminishable (a.) Capable of being diminished or lessened.

Diminisher (n.) One who, or that which, diminishes anything.

Diminishingly (adv.) In a manner to diminish.

Diminishment (n.) Diminution.

Diminuendo (adv.) In a gradually diminishing manner; with abatement of tone; decrescendo; -- expressed on the staff by Dim., or Dimin., or the sign.

Diminuent (a.) Lessening.

Diminutal (a.) Indicating or causing diminution.

Diminute (a.) Small; diminished; diminutive.

Diminutely (adv.) Diminutively.

Diminution (n.) The act of diminishing, or of making or becoming less; state of being diminished; reduction in size, quantity, or degree; -- opposed to augmentation or increase.

Diminution (n.) The act of lessening dignity or consideration, or the state of being deprived of dignity; a lowering in estimation; degradation; abasement.

Diminution (n.) Omission, inaccuracy, or defect in a record.

Diminution (n.) In counterpoint, the imitation of, or reply to, a subject, in notes of half the length or value of those the subject itself.

Diminutival (a.) Indicating diminution; diminutive.

Diminutival (n.) A diminutive.

Diminutive (a.) Below the average size; very small; little.

Diminutive (a.) Expressing diminution; as, a diminutive word.

Diminutive (a.) Tending to diminish.

Diminutive (n.) Something of very small size or value; an insignificant thing.

Diminutive (n.) A derivative from a noun, denoting a small or a young object of the same kind with that denoted by the primitive; as, gosling, eaglet, lambkin.

Diminutively (adv.) In a diminutive manner.

Diminutiveness (n.) The quality of being diminutive; smallness; littleness; minuteness.

Dimish (a.) See Dimmish.

Dimission (n.) Leave to depart; a dismissing.

Dimissory (a.) Sending away; dismissing to another jurisdiction; granting leave to depart.

Dimit (v. t.) To dismiss, let go, or release.

Dimity (n.) A cotton fabric employed for hangings and furniture coverings, and formerly used for women's under-garments. It is of many patterns, both plain and twilled, and occasionally is printed in colors.

Dimly (adv.) In a dim or obscure manner; not brightly or clearly; with imperfect sight.

Dimmish (a.) Alt. of Dimmy

Dimmy (a.) Somewhat dim; as, dimmish eyes.

Dimness (n.) The state or quality / being dim; lack of brightness, clearness, or distinctness; dullness; obscurity.

Dimness (n.) Dullness, or want of clearness, of vision or of intellectual perception.

Dimorph (n.) Either one of the two forms of a dimorphous substance; as, calcite and aragonite are dimorphs.

Dimorphic (a.) Having the property of dimorphism; dimorphous.

Dimorphism (n.) Difference of form between members of the same species, as when a plant has two kinds of flowers, both hermaphrodite (as in the partridge berry), or when there are two forms of one or both sexes of the same species of butterfly.

Dimorphism (n.) Crystallization in two independent forms of the same chemical compound, as of calcium carbonate as calcite and aragonite.

Dimorphous (a.) Characterized by dimorphism; occurring under two distinct forms, not dependent on sex; dimorphic.

Dimorphous (a.) Crystallizing under two forms fundamentally different, while having the same chemical composition.

Dimple (n.) A slight natural depression or indentation on the surface of some part of the body, esp. on the cheek or chin.

Dimple (n.) A slight indentation on any surface.

Dimpled (imp. & p. p.) of Dimple

Dimpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dimple

Dimple (v. i.) To form dimples; to sink into depressions or little inequalities.

Dimple (v. t.) To mark with dimples or dimplelike depressions.

Dimplement (n.) The state of being dimpled, or marked with gentle depressions.

Dimply (a.) Full of dimples, or small depressions; dimpled; as, the dimply pool.

Dim-sighted (a.) Having dim sight; lacking perception.

Dimya (n. pl.) Alt. of Dimyaria

Dimyaria (n. pl.) An order of lamellibranchiate mollusks having an anterior and posterior adductor muscle, as the common clam. See Bivalve.

Dimyarian (a.) Like or pertaining to the Dimya.

Dimyarian (n.) One of the Dimya.

Dimyary (a. & n.) Same as Dimyarian.

Din (n.) Loud, confused, harsh noise; a loud, continuous, rattling or clanging sound; clamor; roar.

Dinned (imp. & p. p.) of Din

Dinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Din

Din (n.) To strike with confused or clanging sound; to stun with loud and continued noise; to harass with clamor; as, to din the ears with cries.

Din (n.) To utter with a din; to repeat noisily; to ding.

Din (v. i.) To sound with a din; a ding.

Dinaphthyl (n.) A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C20H14, obtained from naphthylene, and consisting of a doubled naphthylene radical.

Dinar (n.) A petty money of accounts of Persia.

Dinar (n.) An ancient gold coin of the East.

Dinarchy (n.) See Diarchy.

Dined (imp. & p. p.) of Dine

Dining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dine

Dine (v. i.) To eat the principal regular meal of the day; to take dinner.

Dine (v. t.) To give a dinner to; to furnish with the chief meal; to feed; as, to dine a hundred men.

Dine (v. t.) To dine upon; to have to eat.

Diner (n.) One who dines.

Diner-out (n.) One who often takes his dinner away from home, or in company.

Dinetical (a.) Revolving on an axis.

Dinged (imp. & p. p.) of Ding

Dang () of Ding

Dung () of Ding

Dinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ding

Ding (v. t.) To dash; to throw violently.

Ding (v. t.) To cause to sound or ring.

Ding (v. i.) To strike; to thump; to pound.

Ding (v. i.) To sound, as a bell; to ring; to clang.

Ding (v. i.) To talk with vehemence, importunity, or reiteration; to bluster.

Ding (n.) A thump or stroke, especially of a bell.

Dingdong (n.) The sound of, or as of, repeated strokes on a metallic body, as a bell; a repeated and monotonous sound.

Dingdong (n.) An attachment to a clock by which the quarter hours are struck upon bells of different tones.

Dingey (n.) Alt. of Dinghy

Dingy (n.) Alt. of Dinghy

Dinghy (n.) A kind of boat used in the East Indies.

Dinghy (n.) A ship's smallest boat.

Dingily (adv.) In a dingy manner.

Dinginess (n.) Quality of being dingy; a dusky hue.

Dingle (n.) A narrow dale; a small dell; a small, secluded, and embowered valley.

Dingle-dangle (adv.) In a dangling manner.

Dingo (n.) A wild dog found in Australia, but supposed to have introduced at a very early period. It has a wolflike face, bushy tail, and a reddish brown color.

Dingthrift (n.) A spendthrift.

Dingy (superl.) Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty.

Dinichthys (n.) A genus of large extinct Devonian ganoid fishes. In some parts of Ohio remains of the Dinichthys are abundant, indicating animals twenty feet in length.

Dining (n. & a.) from Dine, a.

Dink (a.) Trim; neat.

Dink (v. t.) To deck; -- often with out or up.

Dinmont (n.) A wether sheep between one and two years old.

Dinner (n.) The principal meal of the day, eaten by most people about midday, but by many (especially in cities) at a later hour.

Dinner (n.) An entertainment; a feast.

Dinnerless (a.) Having no dinner.

Dinnerly (a.) Of or pertaining to dinner.

Dinoceras (n.) A genus of large extinct Eocene mammals from Wyoming; -- called also Uintatherium. See Illustration in Appendix.

Dinornis (n.) A genus of extinct, ostrichlike birds of gigantic size, which formerly inhabited New Zealand. See Moa.

Dinosaur (n.) Alt. of Dinosaurian

Dinosaurian (n.) One of the Dinosauria.

Dinosauria (n. pl.) An order of extinct mesozoic reptiles, mostly of large size (whence the name). Notwithstanding their size, they present birdlike characters in the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind limbs. Some walked on their three-toed hind feet, thus producing the large bird tracks, so-called, of mesozoic sandstones; others were five-toed and quadrupedal. See Illust. of Compsognathus, also Illustration of Dinosaur in Appendix.

Dinothere (n.) Alt. of Dinotherium

Dinotherium (n.) A large extinct proboscidean mammal from the miocene beds of Europe and Asia. It is remarkable fora pair of tusks directed downward from the decurved apex of the lower jaw.

Dinoxide (n.) Same as Dioxide.

Dinsome (a.) Full of din.

Dint (n.) A blow; a stroke.

Dint (n.) The mark left by a blow; an indentation or impression made by violence; a dent.

Dint (n.) Force; power; -- esp. in the phrase by dint of.

Dinted (imp. & p. p.) of Dint

Dinting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dint

Dint (v. t.) To make a mark or cavity on or in, by a blow or by pressure; to dent.

Dinumeration (n.) Enumeration.

Diocesan (a.) Of or pertaining to a diocese; as, diocesan missions.

Diocesan (n.) A bishop, viewed in relation to his diocese; as, the diocesan of New York.

Diocesan (n.) The clergy or the people of a diocese.

Dioceses (pl. ) of Diocese

Diocese (n.) The circuit or extent of a bishop's jurisdiction; the district in which a bishop exercises his ecclesiastical authority.

Diocesener (n.) One who belongs to a diocese.

Diodon (n.) A genus of spinose, plectognath fishes, having the teeth of each jaw united into a single beaklike plate. They are able to inflate the body by taking in air or water, and, hence, are called globefishes, swellfishes, etc. Called also porcupine fishes, and sea hedgehogs.

Diodon (n.) A genus of whales.

Diodont (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Diodon.

Diodont (n.) A fish of the genus Diodon, or an allied genus.

Dioecia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having the stamens and pistils on different plants.

Dioecia (n. pl.) A subclass of gastropod mollusks in which the sexes are separate. It includes most of the large marine species, like the conchs, cones, and cowries.

Dioecian (a.) Alt. of Dioecious

Dioecious (a.) Having the sexes in two separate individuals; -- applied to plants in which the female flowers occur on one individual and the male flowers on another of the same species, and to animals in which the ovum is produced by one individual and the sperm cell by another; -- opposed to monoecious.

Dioeciously (adv.) In a dioecious manner.

Dioeciousness (n.) The state or quality of being dioecious.

Dioecism (n.) The condition of being dioecious.

Diogenes (n.) A Greek Cynic philosopher (412?-323 B. C.) who lived much in Athens and was distinguished for contempt of the common aims and conditions of life, and for sharp, caustic sayings.

Dioicous (a.) See Dioecious.

Diomedea (n.) A genus of large sea birds, including the albatross. See Albatross.

Dionaea (n.) An insectivorous plant. See Venus's flytrap.

Dionysian (a.) Relating to Dionysius, a monk of the 6th century; as, the Dionysian, or Christian, era.

Diophantine (a.) Originated or taught by Diophantus, the Greek writer on algebra.

Diopside (n.) A crystallized variety of pyroxene, of a clear, grayish green color; mussite.

Dioptase (n.) A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring in emerald-green crystals.

Diopter (n.) Alt. of Dioptra

Dioptra (n.) An optical instrument, invented by Hipparchus, for taking altitudes, leveling, etc.

Dioptre (n.) A unit employed by oculists in numbering glasses according to the metric system; a refractive power equal to that of a glass whose principal focal distance is one meter.

Dioptric (a.) Of or pertaining to the dioptre, or to the metric system of numbering glasses.

Dioptric (n.) A dioptre. See Dioptre.

Dioptric (a.) Alt. of Dioptrical

Dioptrical (a.) Of or pertaining to dioptrics; assisting vision by means of the refraction of light; refractive; as, the dioptric system; a dioptric glass or telescope.

Dioptrics (n.) The science of the refraction of light; that part of geometrical optics which treats of the laws of the refraction of light in passing from one medium into another, or through different mediums, as air, water, or glass, and esp. through different lenses; -- distinguished from catoptrics, which refers to reflected light.

Dioptry (n.) A dioptre.

Diorama (n.) A mode of scenic representation, invented by Daguerre and Bouton, in which a painting is seen from a distance through a large opening. By a combination of transparent and opaque painting, and of transmitted and reflected light, and by contrivances such as screens and shutters, much diversity of scenic effect is produced.

Diorama (n.) A building used for such an exhibition.

Dioramic (a.) Pertaining to a diorama.

Diorism (n.) Definition; logical direction.

Dioristic (a.) Distinguishing; distinctive; defining.

Diorite (n.) An igneous, crystalline in structure, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and hornblende. It includes part of what was called greenstone.

Dioritic (a.) Containing diorite.

Diorthotic (a.) Relating to the correcting or straightening out of something; corrective.

Dioscorea (n.) A genus of plants. See Yam.

Diota (n.) A vase or drinking cup having two handles or ears.

Dioxide (n.) An oxide containing two atoms of oxygen in each molecule; binoxide.

Dioxide (n.) An oxide containing but one atom or equivalent of oxygen to two of a metal; a suboxide.

Dioxindol (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance obtained by the reduction of isatin. It is a member of the indol series; -- hence its name.

Dipped (imp. & p. p.) of Dip

Dipt () of Dip

Dipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dip

Dip (v. t.) To plunge or immerse; especially, to put for a moment into a liquid; to insert into a fluid and withdraw again.

Dip (v. t.) To immerse for baptism; to baptize by immersion.

Dip (v. t.) To wet, as if by immersing; to moisten.

Dip (v. t.) To plunge or engage thoroughly in any affair.

Dip (v. t.) To take out, by dipping a dipper, ladle, or other receptacle, into a fluid and removing a part; -- often with out; as, to dip water from a boiler; to dip out water.

Dip (v. t.) To engage as a pledge; to mortgage.

Dip (v. i.) To immerse one's self; to become plunged in a liquid; to sink.

Dip (v. i.) To perform the action of plunging some receptacle, as a dipper, ladle. etc.; into a liquid or a soft substance and removing a part.

Dip (v. i.) To pierce; to penetrate; -- followed by in or into.

Dip (v. i.) To enter slightly or cursorily; to engage one's self desultorily or by the way; to partake limitedly; -- followed by in or into.

Dip (v. i.) To incline downward from the plane of the horizon; as, strata of rock dip.

Dip (v. i.) To dip snuff.

Dip (n.) The action of dipping or plunging for a moment into a liquid.

Dip (n.) Inclination downward; direction below a horizontal line; slope; pitch.

Dip (n.) A liquid, as a sauce or gravy, served at table with a ladle or spoon.

Dip (n.) A dipped candle.

Dipaschal (a.) Including two passovers.

Dipchick (n.) See Dabchick.

Dipetalous (a.) Having two petals; two-petaled.

Diphenyl (n.) A white crystalline substance, C6H5.C6H5, obtained by leading benzene through a heated iron tube. It consists of two benzene or phenyl radicals united.

Diphtheria (n.) A very dangerous contagious disease in which the air passages, and especially the throat, become coated with a false membrane, produced by the solidification of an inflammatory exudation. Cf. Group.

Diphtherial (a.) Alt. of Diphtheric

Diphtheric (a.) Relating to diphtheria; diphtheritic.

Diphtheritic (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, diphtheria.

Diphtheritic (a.) Having characteristics resembling those of diphtheria; as, diphtheritic inflammation of the bladder.

Diphthong (n.) A coalition or union of two vowel sounds pronounced in one syllable; as, ou in out, oi in noise; -- called a proper diphthong.

Diphthong (n.) A vowel digraph; a union of two vowels in the same syllable, only one of them being sounded; as, ai in rain, eo in people; -- called an improper diphthong.

Diphthong (v. t.) To form or pronounce as a diphthong; diphthongize.

Diphthongal (a.) Relating or belonging to a diphthong; having the nature of a diphthong.

Diphthongalize (v. t.) To make into a diphthong; to pronounce as a diphthong.

Diphthongation (n.) See Diphthongization.

Diphthongic (a.) Of the nature of diphthong; diphthongal.

Diphthongization (n.) The act of changing into a diphthong.

Diphthongize (v. t. & i.) To change into a diphthong, as by affixing another vowel to a simple vowel.

Diphycercal (a.) Having the tail fin divided into two equal parts by the notochord, or end of the vertebral column; protocercal. See Protocercal.

Diphygenic (a.) Having two modes of embryonic development.

Diphyllous (a.) Having two leaves, as a calyx, etc.

Diphyodont (a.) Having two successive sets of teeth (deciduous and permanent), one succeeding the other; as, a diphyodont mammal; diphyodont dentition; -- opposed to monophyodont.

Diphyodont (n.) An animal having two successive sets of teeth.

Diphyozooid (n.) One of the free-swimming sexual zooids of Siphonophora.

Diplanar (a.) Of or pertaining to two planes.

Dipleidoscope (n.) An instrument for determining the time of apparent noon. It consists of two mirrors and a plane glass disposed in the form of a prism, so that, by the reflections of the sun's rays from their surfaces, two images are presented to the eye, moving in opposite directions, and coinciding at the instant the sun's center is on the meridian.

Diploblastic (a.) Characterizing the ovum when it has two primary germinal layers.

Diplocardiac (a.) Having the heart completely divided or double, one side systemic, the other pulmonary.

Diplococci (pl. ) of Diplococcus

Diplococcus (n.) A form of micrococcus in which cocci are united in a binary manner. See Micrococcus.

Diploe (n.) The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the plates of the skull.

Diploetic (a.) Diploic.

Diplogenic (a.) Partaking of the nature of two bodies; producing two substances.

Diploic (a.) Of or pertaining to the diploe.

Diploid (n.) A solid bounded by twenty-four similar quadrilateral faces. It is a hemihedral form of the hexoctahedron.

Diplomas (pl. ) of Diploma

Diploma (n.) A letter or writing, usually under seal, conferring some privilege, honor, or power; a document bearing record of a degree conferred by a literary society or educational institution.

Diplomacy (n.) The art and practice of conducting negotiations between nations (particularly in securing treaties), including the methods and forms usually employed.

Diplomacy (n.) Dexterity or skill in securing advantages; tact.

Diplomacy (n.) The body of ministers or envoys resident at a court; the diplomatic body.

Diplomat (n.) Alt. of Diplomate

Diplomate (n.) A diplomatist.

Diplomate (v. t.) To invest with a title o/ privilege by diploma.

Diplomatial (a.) Diplomatic.

Diplomatic (a.) Alt. of Diplomatical

Diplomatical (a.) Pertaining to diplomacy; relating to the foreign ministers at a court, who are called the diplomatic body.

Diplomatical (a.) Characterized by tact and shrewdness; dexterous; artful; as, diplomatic management.

Diplomatical (a.) Pertaining to diplomatics; paleographic.

Diplomatic (n.) A minister, official agent, or envoy to a foreign court; a diplomatist.

Diplomatically (adv.) According to the rules of diplomacy; in the manner of a diplomatist; artfully.

Diplomatic (n.) The science of diplomas, or the art of deciphering ancient writings, and determining their age, authenticity, etc.; paleography.

Diplomatism (n.) Diplomacy.

Diplomatist (n.) A person employed in, or skilled in, diplomacy; a diplomat.

Diplopia (n.) Alt. of Diplopy

Diplopy (n.) The act or state of seeing double.

Diplopod (n.) One of the Diplopoda.

Diplopoda (n. pl.) An order of myriapods having two pairs of legs on each segment; the Chilognatha.

Diplostemonous (a.) Having twice as many stamens as petals, as the geranium.

Diplostemony (n.) The condition of being diplostemonous.

Dipneumona (n. pl.) A group of spiders having only two lunglike organs.

Dipnoi (n. pl.) A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodus and Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to the Amphibia. The air bladder acts as a lung, and the nostrils open inside the mouth. See Ceratodus, and Illustration in Appendix.

Dipodies (pl. ) of Dipody

Dipody (n.) Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.

Dipolar (a.) Having two poles, as a magnetic bar.

Dippel's oil () See Bone oil, under Bone.

Dipper (n.) One who, or that which, dips; especially, a vessel used to dip water or other liquid; a ladle.

Dipper (n.) A small grebe; the dabchick.

Dipper (n.) The buffel duck.

Dipper (n.) The water ouzel (Cinolus aquaticus) of Europe.

Dipper (n.) The American dipper or ouzel (Cinclus Mexicanus).

Dipping (n.) The act or process of immersing.

Dipping (n.) The act of inclining downward.

Dipping (n.) The act of lifting or moving a liquid with a dipper, ladle, or the like.

Dipping (n.) The process of cleaning or brightening sheet metal or metalware, esp. brass, by dipping it in acids, etc.

Dipping (n.) The practice of taking snuff by rubbing the teeth or gums with a stick or brush dipped in snuff.

Diprismatic (a.) Doubly prismatic.

Dipropargyl (n.) A pungent, mobile, volatile liquid, C6H6, produced artificially from certain allyl derivatives. Though isomeric with benzine, it is very different in its chemical relations. Called also dipropinyl.

Dipropyl (n.) One of the hexane paraffins, found in petroleum, consisting of two propyl radicals. See Hexane.

Diprotodon (n.) An extinct Quaternary marsupial from Australia, about as large as the hippopotamus; -- so named because of its two large front teeth. See Illustration in Appendix.

Dipsas (n.) A serpent whose bite was fabled to produce intense thirst.

Dipsas (n.) A genus of harmless colubrine snakes.

Dipsetic (a.) Tending to produce thirst.

Dipsomania (n.) A morbid an uncontrollable craving (often periodic) for drink, esp. for alcoholic liquors; also improperly used to denote acute and chronic alcoholism.

Dipsomaniac (n.) One who has an irrepressible desire for alcoholic drinks.

Dipsomaniacal (a.) Of or pertaining to dipsomania.

Dipsosis (n.) Excessive thirst produced by disease.

Diptera (n. pl.) An extensive order of insects having only two functional wings and two balancers, as the house fly, mosquito, etc. They have a suctorial proboscis, often including two pairs of sharp organs (mandibles and maxillae) with which they pierce the skin of animals. They undergo a complete metamorphosis, their larvae (called maggots) being usually without feet.

Dipteral (a.) Having two wings only; belonging to the order Diptera.

Dipteral (a.) Having a double row of columns on each on the flanks, as well as in front and rear; -- said of a temple.

Dipteran (n.) An insect of the order Diptera.

Dipterocarpus (n.) A genus of trees found in the East Indies, some species of which produce a fragrant resin, other species wood oil. The fruit has two long wings.

Dipterous (a.) Having two wings, as certain insects; belonging to the order Diptera.

Dipterous (a.) Having two wings; two-winged.

Dipterygian (a.) Having two dorsal fins; -- said of certain fishes.

Diptote (n.) A noun which has only two cases.

Diptych (n.) Anything consisting of two leaves.

Diptych (n.) A writing tablet consisting of two leaves of rigid material connected by hinges and shutting together so as to protect the writing within.

Diptych (n.) A picture or series of pictures painted on two tablets connected by hinges. See Triptych.

Diptych (n.) A double catalogue, containing in one part the names of living, and in the other of deceased, ecclesiastics and benefactors of the church; a catalogue of saints.

Dipyre (n.) A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the double effect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering it phosphorescent.

Dipyrenous (a.) Containing two stones or nutlets.

Dipyridine (n.) A polymeric form of pyridine, C10H10N2, obtained as a colorless oil by the action of sodium on pyridine.

Dipyridil (n.) A crystalline nitrogenous base, C10H8N2, obtained by the reduction of pyridine.

Diradiation (n.) The emission and diffusion of rays of light.

Dire (superl.) Ill-boding; portentous; as, dire omens.

Dire (superl.) Evil in great degree; dreadful; dismal; horrible; terrible; lamentable.

Direct (a.) Straight; not crooked, oblique, or circuitous; leading by the short or shortest way to a point or end; as, a direct line; direct means.

Direct (a.) Straightforward; not of crooked ways, or swerving from truth and openness; sincere; outspoken.

Direct (a.) Immediate; express; plain; unambiguous.

Direct (a.) In the line of descent; not collateral; as, a descendant in the direct line.

Direct (a.) In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from west to east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of the motion of a celestial body.

Directed (imp. & p. p.) of Direct

Directing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Direct

Direct (v. t.) To arrange in a direct or straight line, as against a mark, or towards a goal; to point; to aim; as, to direct an arrow or a piece of ordnance.

Direct (v. t.) To point out or show to (any one), as the direct or right course or way; to guide, as by pointing out the way; as, he directed me to the left-hand road.

Direct (v. t.) To determine the direction or course of; to cause to go on in a particular manner; to order in the way to a certain end; to regulate; to govern; as, to direct the affairs of a nation or the movements of an army.

Direct (v. t.) To point out to with authority; to instruct as a superior; to order; as, he directed them to go.

Direct (v. t.) To put a direction or address upon; to mark with the name and residence of the person to whom anything is sent; to superscribe; as, to direct a letter.

Direct (v. i.) To give direction; to point out a course; to act as guide.

Direct (n.) A character, thus [/], placed at the end of a staff on the line or space of the first note of the next staff, to apprise the performer of its situation.

Direct-acting (a.) Acting directly, as one part upon another, without the intervention of other working parts.

Directer (n.) One who directs; a director.

Direction (n.) The act of directing, of aiming, regulating, guiding, or ordering; guidance; management; superintendence; administration; as, the direction o/ public affairs or of a bank.

Direction (n.) That which is imposed by directing; a guiding or authoritative instruction; prescription; order; command; as, he grave directions to the servants.

Direction (n.) The name and residence of a person to whom any thing is sent, written upon the thing sent; superscription; address; as, the direction of a letter.

Direction (n.) The line or course upon which anything is moving or aimed to move, or in which anything is lying or pointing; aim; line or point of tendency; direct line or course; as, the ship sailed in a southeasterly direction.

Direction (n.) The body of managers of a corporation or enterprise; board of directors.

Direction (n.) The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary vertical axis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given when the plane of sight passes through the object.

Directive (a.) Having power to direct; tending to direct, guide, or govern; showing the way.

Directive (a.) Able to be directed; manageable.

Directly (adv.) In a direct manner; in a straight line or course.

Directly (adv.) In a straightforward way; without anything intervening; not by secondary, but by direct, means.

Directly (adv.) Without circumlocution or ambiguity; absolutely; in express terms.

Directly (adv.) Exactly; just.

Directly (adv.) Straightforwardly; honestly.

Directly (adv.) Manifestly; openly.

Directly (adv.) Straightway; next in order; without delay; immediately.

Directly (adv.) Immediately after; as soon as.

Directness (n.) The quality of being direct; straightness; straightforwardness; immediateness.

Director (n.) One who, or that which, directs; one who regulates, guides, or orders; a manager or superintendent.

Director (n.) One of a body of persons appointed to manage the affairs of a company or corporation; as, the directors of a bank, insurance company, or railroad company.

Director (n.) A part of a machine or instrument which directs its motion or action.

Director (n.) A slender grooved instrument upon which a knife is made to slide when it is wished to limit the extent of motion of the latter, or prevent its injuring the parts beneath.

Directorate (n.) The office of director; also, a body of directors taken jointly.

Directorial (a.) Having the quality of a director, or authoritative guide; directive.

Directorial (a.) Pertaining to: director or directory; specifically, relating to the Directory of France under the first republic. See Directory, 3.

Directorship (n.) The condition or office of a director; directorate.

Directory (a.) Containing directions; enjoining; instructing; directorial.

Directories (pl. ) of Directory

Directory (n.) A collection or body of directions, rules, or ordinances; esp., a book of directions for the conduct of worship; as, the Directory used by the nonconformists instead of the Prayer Book.

Directory (n.) A book containing the names and residences of the inhabitants of any place, or of classes of them; an address book; as, a business directory.

Directory (n.) A body of directors; board of management; especially, a committee which held executive power in France under the first republic.

Directory (n.) Direction; guide.

Directress (n.) A woman who directs.

Directrixes (pl. ) of Directrix

Directrix (n.) A directress.

Directrix (n.) A line along which a point in another line moves, or which in any way governs the motion of the point and determines the position of the curve generated by it; the line along which the generatrix moves in generating a surface.

Directrix (n.) A straight line so situated with respect to a conic section that the distance of any point of the curve from it has a constant ratio to the distance of the same point from the focus.

Direful (a.) Dire; dreadful; terrible; calamitous; woeful; as, a direful fiend; a direful day.

Direly (adv.) In a dire manner.

Dirempt (a.) Divided; separated.

Dirempt (v. t.) To separate by force; to tear apart.

Diremption (n.) A tearing apart; violent separation.

Direness (n.) Terribleness; horror; woefulness.

Direption (n.) The act of plundering, despoiling, or snatching away.

Direptitious (a.) Characterized by direption.

Direptitiously (adv.) With plundering violence; by violent injustice.

Dirge (a.) A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeral rites; a funeral hymn.

Dirgeful (a.) Funereal; moaning.

Dirige (n.) A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being the first antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the first word; a dirge.

Dirigent (a.) Directing.

Dirigent (n.) The line of motion along which a describent line or surface is carried in the genesis of any plane or solid figure; a directrix.

Dirigible (a.) Capable of being directed; steerable; as, a dirigible balloon.

Diriment (a.) Absolute.

Dirk (n.) A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by the Scottish Highlander.

Dirked (imp. & p. p.) of Dirk

Dirking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dirk

Dirk (v. t.) To stab with a dirk.

Dirk (a.) Dark.

Dirk (v. t.) To darken.

Dirkness (n.) Darkness.

Dirl (v. i. & t.) To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate.

Dirt (n.) Any foul of filthy substance, as excrement, mud, dust, etc.; whatever, adhering to anything, renders it foul or unclean; earth; as, a wagonload of dirt.

Dirt (n.) Meanness; sordidness.

Dirt (n.) In placer mining, earth, gravel, etc., before washing.

Dirt (v. t.) To make foul of filthy; to dirty.

Dirtily (adv.) In a dirty manner; foully; nastily; filthily; meanly; sordidly.

Dirtiness (n.) The state of being dirty; filthiness; foulness; nastiness; baseness; sordidness.

Dirty (superl.) Defiled with dirt; foul; nasty; filthy; not clean or pure; serving to defile; as, dirty hands; dirty water; a dirty white.

Dirty (superl.) Sullied; clouded; -- applied to color.

Dirty (superl.) Sordid; base; groveling; as, a dirty fellow.

Dirty (superl.) Sleety; gusty; stormy; as, dirty weather.

Dirtied (imp. & p. p.) of Dirty

Dirtying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dirty

Dirty (v. t.) To foul; to make filthy; to soil; as, to dirty the clothes or hands.

Dirty (v. t.) To tarnish; to sully; to scandalize; -- said of reputation, character, etc.

Diruption (a.) Disruption.

Dis- () .

Dis- () A prefix from the Latin, whence F. des, or sometimes de-, dis-. The Latin dis-appears as di-before b, d, g, l, m, n, r, v, becomes dif-before f, and either dis-or di- before j. It is from the same root as bis twice, and duo, E. two. See Two, and cf. Bi-, Di-, Dia-. Dis-denotes separation, a parting from, as in distribute, disconnect; hence it often has the force of a privative and negative, as in disarm, disoblige, disagree. Also intensive, as in dissever.

Dis- () A prefix from Gr. di`s- twice. See Di-.

Dis (n.) The god Pluto.

Disabilities (pl. ) of Disability

Disability (n.) State of being disabled; deprivation or want of ability; absence of competent physical, intellectual, or moral power, means, fitness, and the like.

Disability (n.) Want of legal qualification to do a thing; legal incapacity or incompetency.

Disable (a.) Lacking ability; unable.

Disabled (imp. & p. p.) of Disable

Disabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disable

Disable (v. t.) To render unable or incapable; to destroy the force, vigor, or power of action of; to deprive of competent physical or intellectual power; to incapacitate; to disqualify; to make incompetent or unfit for service; to impair.

Disable (v. t.) To deprive of legal right or qualification; to render legally incapable.

Disable (v. t.) To deprive of that which gives value or estimation; to declare lacking in competency; to disparage; to undervalue.

Disablement (n.) Deprivation of ability; incapacity.

Disabused (imp. & p. p.) of Disabuse

Disabusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disabuse

Disabuse (v. t.) To set free from mistakes; to undeceive; to disengage from fallacy or deception; to set right.

Disaccommodate (v. t.) To put to inconvenience; to incommode.

Disaccommodation (n.) A state of being unaccommodated or unsuited.

Disaccord (v. i.) To refuse to assent.

Disaccord (n.) Disagreement.

Disaccordant (a.) Not accordant.

Disaccustom (v. t.) To destroy the force of habit in; to wean from a custom.

Disacidify (v. t.) To free from acid.

Disacknowledged (imp. & p. p.) of Disacknowledge

Disacknowledging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disacknowledge

Disacknowledge (v. t.) To refuse to acknowledge; to deny; to disown.

Disacquaint (v. t.) To render unacquainted; to make unfamiliar.

Disacquaintance (n.) Neglect of disuse of familiarity, or familiar acquaintance.

Disacryl (n.) A white amorphous substance obtained as a polymeric modification of acrolein.

Disadorn (v. t.) To deprive of ornaments.

Disadvance (v. t. & i.) To draw back, or cause to draw back.

Disadvantage (n.) Deprivation of advantage; unfavorable or prejudicial quality, condition, circumstance, or the like; that which hinders success, or causes loss or injury.

Disadvantage (n.) Loss; detriment; hindrance; prejudice to interest, fame, credit, profit, or other good.

Disadvantage (v. t.) To injure the interest of; to be detrimental to.

Disadvantageable (a.) Injurious; disadvantageous.

Disadvantageous (a.) Attended with disadvantage; unfavorable to success or prosperity; inconvenient; prejudicial; -- opposed to advantageous; as, the situation of an army is disadvantageous for attack or defense.

Disadventure (n.) Misfortune; mishap.

Disadventurous (a.) Unprosperous; unfortunate.

Disadvise (v. t.) To advise against; to dissuade from.

Disaffected (imp. & p. p.) of Disaffect

Disaffecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disaffect

Disaffect (v. t.) To alienate or diminish the affection of; to make unfriendly or less friendly; to fill with discontent and unfriendliness.

Disaffect (v. t.) To disturb the functions of; to disorder.

Disaffect (v. t.) To lack affection for; to be alienated from, or indisposed toward; to dislike.

Disaffected (a.) Alienated in feeling; not wholly loyal.

Disaffection (n.) State of being disaffected; alienation or want of affection or good will, esp. toward those in authority; unfriendliness; dislike.

Disaffection (n.) Disorder; bad constitution.

Disaffectionate (a.) Not disposed to affection; unfriendly; disaffected.

Disaffirm (v. t.) To assert the contrary of; to contradict; to deny; -- said of that which has been asserted.

Disaffirm (v. t.) To refuse to confirm; to annul, as a judicial decision, by a contrary judgment of a superior tribunal.

Disaffirmance (n.) The act of disaffirming; denial; negation.

Disaffirmance (n.) Overthrow or annulment by the decision of a superior tribunal; as, disaffirmance of judgment.

Disaffirmation (n.) The act of disaffirming; negation; refutation.

Disafforested (imp. & p. p.) of Disafforest

Disafforesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disafforest

Disafforest (v. t.) To reduce from the privileges of a forest to the state of common ground; to exempt from forest laws.

Disaggregate (v. t.) To destroy the aggregation of; to separate into component parts, as an aggregate mass.

Disaggregation (n.) The separation of an aggregate body into its component parts.

Disagreed (imp. & p. p.) of Disagree

Disageeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disagree

Disagree (v. i.) To fail to accord; not to agree; to lack harmony; to differ; to be unlike; to be at variance.

Disagree (v. i.) To differ in opinion; to hold discordant views; to be at controversy; to quarrel.

Disagree (v. i.) To be unsuited; to have unfitness; as, medicine sometimes disagrees with the patient; food often disagrees with the stomach or the taste.

Disagreeable (a.) Not agreeable, conformable, or congruous; contrary; unsuitable.

Disagreeable (a.) Exciting repugnance; offensive to the feelings or senses; displeasing; unpleasant.

Disagreeableness (n.) The state or quality of being; disagreeable; unpleasantness.

Disagreeably (adv.) In a disagreeable manner; unsuitably; offensively.

Disagreeance (n.) Disagreement.

Disagreement (n.) The state of disagreeing; a being at variance; dissimilitude; diversity.

Disagreement (n.) Unsuitableness; unadaptedness.

Disagreement (n.) Difference of opinion or sentiment.

Disagreement (n.) A falling out, or controversy; difference.

Disagreer (n.) One who disagrees.

Disalliege (v. t.) To alienate from allegiance.

Disallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Disallow

Disallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disallow

Disallow (v. t.) To refuse to allow; to deny the force or validity of; to disown and reject; as, the judge disallowed the executor's charge.

Disallowable (a.) Not allowable; not to be suffered.

Disallowance (n.) The act of disallowing; refusal to admit or permit; rejection.

Disally (v. t.) To part, as an alliance; to sunder.

Disanchor (v. t. & i.) To raise the anchor of, as a ship; to weigh anchor.

Disangelical (a.) Not angelical.

Disanimated (imp. & p. p.) of Disanimate

Disanimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disanimate

Disanimate (v. t.) To deprive of life.

Disanimate (v. t.) To deprive of spirit; to dishearten.

Disanimation (n.) Privation of life.

Disanimation (n.) The state of being disanimated or discouraged; depression of spirits.

Disannex (v. t.) To disunite; to undo or repeal the annexation of.

Disannul (v. t.) To annul completely; to render void or of no effect.

Disannuller (n.) One who disannuls.

Disannulment (n.) Complete annulment.

Disanoint (v. t.) To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king.

Disapparel (v. t.) To disrobe; to strip of apparel; to make naked.

Disappeared (imp. & p. p.) of Disappear

Disappearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disappear

Disappear (v. i.) To cease to appear or to be perceived; to pass from view, gradually or suddenly; to vanish; to be no longer seen; as, darkness disappears at the approach of light; a ship disappears as she sails from port.

Disappear (v. i.) To cease to be or exist; as, the epidemic has disappeared.

Disappearance (n.) The act of disappearing; cessation of appearance; removal from sight; vanishing.

Disappendency (n.) A detachment or separation from a former connection.

Disappendent (a.) Freed from a former connection or dependence; disconnected.

Disapointed (imp. & p. p.) of Disappoint

Disappointing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disappoint

Disappoint (v. t.) To defeat of expectation or hope; to hinder from the attainment of that which was expected, hoped, or desired; to balk; as, a man is disappointed of his hopes or expectations, or his hopes, desires, intentions, expectations, or plans are disappointed; a bad season disappoints the farmer of his crops; a defeat disappoints an enemy of his spoil.

Disappoint (v. t.) To frustrate; to fail; to hinder of result.

Disappointed (a.) Defeated of expectation or hope; balked; as, a disappointed person or hope.

Disappointed (a.) Unprepared; unequipped.

Disappointment (n.) The act of disappointing, or the state of being disappointed; defeat or failure of expectation or hope; miscarriage of design or plan; frustration.

Disappointment (n.) That which disappoints.

Disappreciate (v. t.) To undervalue; not to esteem.

Disapprobation (n.) The act of disapproving; mental condemnation of what is judged wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; feeling of censure.

Disapprobatory (a.) Containing disapprobation; serving to disapprove.

Disappropriate (a.) Severed from the appropriation or possession of a spiritual corporation.

Disappropriate (v. t.) To release from individual ownership or possession.

Disappropriate (v. t.) To sever from appropriation or possession a spiritual corporation.

Disappropriation (n.) The act of disappropriating.

Disapproval (n.) Disapprobation; dislike; censure; adverse judgment.

Disapproved (imp. & p. p.) of Disapprove

Disapproving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disapprove

Disapprove (v. t.) To pass unfavorable judgment upon; to condemn by an act of the judgment; to regard as wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; to censure; as, to disapprove the conduct of others.

Disapprove (v. t.) To refuse official approbation to; to disallow; to decline to sanction; as, the sentence of the court-martial was disapproved by the commander in chief.

Disapprover (n.) One who disapproves.

Disapprovingly (adv.) In a disapproving manner.

Disard (n.) See Dizzard.

Disarming (imp. & p. p.) of Disarm

Disarming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disarm

Disarm (v. t.) To deprive of arms; to take away the weapons of; to deprive of the means of attack or defense; to render defenseless.

Disarm (v. t.) To deprive of the means or the disposition to harm; to render harmless or innocuous; as, to disarm a man's wrath.

Disarmament (n.) The act of disarming.

Disarmature (n.) The act of divesting of armature.

Disarmed (a.) Deprived of arms.

Disarmed (a.) Deprived of claws, and teeth or beaks.

Disarmer (n.) One who disarms.

Disarranged (imp. & p. p.) of Disarrange

Disarranging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disarrange

Disarrange (v. t.) To unsettle or disturb the order or due arrangement of; to throw out of order.

Disarrangement (n.) The act of disarranging, or the state of being disarranged; confusion; disorder.

Disarrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Disarray

Disarraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disarray

Disarray (v. t.) To throw into disorder; to break the array of.

Disarray (v. t.) To take off the dress of; to unrobe.

Disarray (n.) Want of array or regular order; disorder; confusion.

Disarray (n.) Confused attire; undress.

Disarrayment (n.) Disorder.

Disarticulate (v. t.) To sunder; to separate, as joints.

Disarticulator (n.) One who disarticulates and prepares skeletons.

Disassent (v. i.) To dissent.

Disassent (n.) Dissent.

Disassenter (n.) One who disassents; a dissenter.

Disassiduity (n.) Want of assiduity or care.

Disassimilate (v. t.) To subject to disassimilation.

Disassimilation (n.) The decomposition of complex substances, within the organism, into simpler ones suitable only for excretion, with evolution of energy, -- a normal nutritional process the reverse of assimilation; downward metabolism.

Disassimilative (a.) Having power to disassimilate; of the nature of disassimilation.

Disassociated (imp. & p. p.) of Disassociate

Disassociating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disassociate

Disassociate (v. t.) To disconnect from things associated; to disunite; to dissociate.

Disaster (n.) An unpropitious or baleful aspect of a planet or star; malevolent influence of a heavenly body; hence, an ill portent.

Disaster (n.) An adverse or unfortunate event, esp. a sudden and extraordinary misfortune; a calamity; a serious mishap.

Disaster (v. t.) To blast by the influence of a baleful star.

Disaster (v. t.) To bring harm upon; to injure.

Disasterly (adv.) Disastrously.

Disastrous (a.) Full of unpropitious stellar influences; unpropitious; ill-boding.

Disastrous (a.) Attended with suffering or disaster; very unfortunate; calamitous; ill-fated; as, a disastrous day; a disastrous termination of an undertaking.

Disattire (v. t.) To unrobe; to undress.

Disaugment (v. t.) To diminish.

Disauthorize (v. t.) To deprive of credit or authority; to discredit.

Disavaunce (v. t.) To retard; to repel; to do damage to.

Disaventure (n.) Misfortune.

Disaventurous (a.) Misadventurous; unfortunate.

Disavouch (v. t.) To disavow.

Disavowed (imp. & p. p.) of Disavow

Disavowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disavow

Disavow (v. t.) To refuse strongly and solemnly to own or acknowledge; to deny responsibility for, approbation of, and the like; to disclaim; to disown; as, he was charged with embezzlement, but he disavows the crime.

Disavow (v. t.) To deny; to show the contrary of; to disprove.

Disavowal (n.) The act of disavowing, disclaiming, or disowning; rejection and denial.

Disavowance (n.) Disavowal.

Disavower (n.) One who disavows.

Disavowment (n.) Disavowal.

Disbanded (imp. & p. p.) of Disband

Disbanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disband

Disband (v. t.) To loose the bands of; to set free; to disunite; to scatter; to disperse; to break up the organization of; especially, to dismiss from military service; as, to disband an army.

Disband (v. t.) To divorce.

Disband (v. i.) To become separated, broken up, dissolved, or scattered; especially, to quit military service by breaking up organization.

Disbandment (n.) The act of disbanding.

Disbarred (imp. & p. p.) of Disbar

Disbarring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disbar

Disbar (v. t.) To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (an attorney, barrister, or counselor) of his status and privileges as such.

Disbark (v. t.) To disembark.

Disbark (v. t.) To strip of bark; to bark.

Disbarment (n.) Act of disbarring.

Disbase (v. t.) To debase or degrade.

Disbecome (v. t.) To misbecome.

Disbelief (n.) The act of disbelieving;; a state of the mind in which one is fully persuaded that an opinion, assertion, or doctrine is not true; refusal of assent, credit, or credence; denial of belief.

Disbelieved (imp. & p. p.) of Disbelieve

Disbelieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disbelieve

Disbelieve (v. t.) Not to believe; to refuse belief or credence to; to hold not to be true or actual.

Disbeliever (n.) One who disbelieves, or refuses belief; an unbeliever. Specifically, one who does not believe the Christian religion.

Disbench (v. t.) To drive from a bench or seat.

Disbench (v. t.) To deprive (a bencher) of his privileges.

Disbend (v. t.) To unbend.

Disbind (v. t.) To unbind; to loosen.

Disblame (v. t.) To clear from blame.

Disbodied (a.) Disembodied.

Disboscation (n.) Converting forest land into cleared or arable land; removal of a forest.

Disbowel (v. t.) To disembowel.

Disbranch (v.) To divest of a branch or branches; to tear off.

Disbud (v.) To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizing the vital strength of a tree.

Disburden (v. t.) To rid of a burden; to free from a load borne or from something oppressive; to unload; to disencumber; to relieve.

Disburden (v. i.) To relieve one's self of a burden; to ease the mind.

Disburgeon (v. t.) To strip of burgeons or buds; to disbud.

Disbursed (imp. & p. p.) of Disburse

Disbursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disburse

Disburse (v. t.) To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund or treasury.

Disbursement (n.) The act of disbursing or paying out.

Disbursement (n.) That which is disbursed or paid out; as, the annual disbursements exceed the income.

Disburser (n.) One who disburses money.

Disburthened (imp. & p. p.) of Disburthen

Disburthening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disburthen

Disburthen (v. t.) To disburden; to relieve of a load.

Disc (n.) A flat round plate

Disc (n.) A circular structure either in plants or animals; as, a blood disc, a germinal disc, etc. Same as Disk.

Discage (v. t.) To uncage.

Discal (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells.

Discalceate (v. t.) To pull off shoes or sandals from.

Discalceated (a.) Deprived off shoes or sandals; unshod; discalced.

Discalced (a.) Unshod; barefooted; -- in distinction from calced.

Discalceation (n.) The act of pulling off the shoes or sandals.

Discamp (v. t.) To drive from a camp.

Discandy (v. i.) To melt; to dissolve; to thaw.

Discant (n.) See Descant, n.

Discapacitate (v. t.) To deprive of capacity; to incapacitate.

Discarded (imp. & p. p.) of Discard

Discarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discard

Discard (v. t.) To throw out of one's hand, as superfluous cards; to lay aside (a card or cards).

Discard (v. t.) To cast off as useless or as no longer of service; to dismiss from employment, confidence, or favor; to discharge; to turn away.

Discard (v. t.) To put or thrust away; to reject.

Discard (v. i.) To make a discard.

Discard (n.) The act of discarding; also, the card or cards discarded.

Discardure (n.) Rejection; dismissal.

Discarnate (a.) Stripped of flesh.

Discase (v. t.) To strip; to undress.

Discede (v. i.) To yield or give up; to depart.

Discept (v. i.) To debate; to discuss.

Disceptation (n.) Controversy; disputation; discussion.

Disceptator (n.) One who arbitrates or decides.

Discerned (imp. & p. p.) of Discern

Discerning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discern

Discern (v. t.) To see and identify by noting a difference or differences; to note the distinctive character of; to discriminate; to distinguish.

Discern (v. t.) To see by the eye or by the understanding; to perceive and recognize; as, to discern a difference.

Discern (v. i.) To see or understand the difference; to make distinction; as, to discern between good and evil, truth and falsehood.

Discern (v. i.) To make cognizance.

Discernance (n.) Discernment.

Discerner (n.) One who, or that which, discerns, distinguishes, perceives, or judges; as, a discerner of truth, of right and wrong.

Discernible (a.) Capable of being discerned by the eye or the understanding; as, a star is discernible by the eye; the identity of difference of ideas is discernible by the understanding.

Discernibleness (n.) The quality of being discernible.

Discernibly (adv.) In a manner to be discerned; perceptibly; visibly.

Discerning (a.) Acute; shrewd; sagacious; sharp-sighted.

Discerningly (adv.) In a discerning manner; with judgment; judiciously; acutely.

Discernment (n.) The act of discerning.

Discernment (n.) The power or faculty of the mind by which it distinguishes one thing from another; power of viewing differences in objects, and their relations and tendencies; penetrative and discriminate mental vision; acuteness; sagacity; insight; as, the errors of youth often proceed from the want of discernment.

Discerp (v. t.) To tear in pieces; to rend.

Discerp (v. t.) To separate; to disunite.

Discerpibility (n.) Alt. of Discerptibility

Discerptibility (n.) Capability or liableness to be discerped.

Discerpible (a.) Alt. of Discerptible

Discerptible (a.) Capable of being discerped.

Discerption (n.) The act of pulling to pieces, or of separating the parts.

Discerptive (a.) Tending to separate or disunite parts.

Discession (n.) Departure.

Discharged (imp. & p. p.) of Discharge

Discharging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discharge

Discharge (v. t.) To relieve of a charge, load, or burden; to empty of a load or cargo; to unburden; to unload; as, to discharge a vessel.

Discharge (v. t.) To free of the missile with which anything is charged or loaded; to let go the charge of; as, to discharge a bow, catapult, etc.; especially, said of firearms, -- to fire off; to shoot off; also, to relieve from a state of tension, as a Leyden jar.

Discharge (v. t.) To of something weighing upon or impeding over one, as a debt, claim, obligation, responsibility, accusation, etc.; to absolve; to acquit; to clear.

Discharge (v. t.) To relieve of an office or employment; to send away from service; to dismiss.

Discharge (v. t.) To release legally from confinement; to set at liberty; as, to discharge a prisoner.

Discharge (v. t.) To put forth, or remove, as a charge or burden; to take out, as that with which anything is loaded or filled; as, to discharge a cargo.

Discharge (v. t.) To let fly, as a missile; to shoot.

Discharge (v. t.) To set aside; to annul; to dismiss.

Discharge (v. t.) To throw off the obligation of, as a duty or debt; to relieve one's self of, by fulfilling conditions, performing duty, trust, and the like; hence, to perform or execute, as an office, or part.

Discharge (v. t.) To send away (a creditor) satisfied by payment; to pay one's debt or obligation to.

Discharge (v. t.) To give forth; to emit or send out; as, a pipe discharges water; to let fly; to give expression to; to utter; as, to discharge a horrible oath.

Discharge (v. t.) To prohibit; to forbid.

Discharge (v. i.) To throw off or deliver a load, charge, or burden; to unload; to emit or give vent to fluid or other contents; as, the water pipe discharges freely.

Discharge (v. t.) The act of discharging; the act of relieving of a charge or load; removal of a load or burden; unloading; as, the discharge of a ship; discharge of a cargo.

Discharge (v. t.) Firing off; explosive removal of a charge; explosion; letting off; as, a discharge of arrows, of artillery.

Discharge (v. t.) Act of relieving of something which oppresses or weighs upon one, as an obligation, liability, debt, accusation, etc.; acquittance; as, the discharge of a debtor.

Discharge (v. t.) Act of removing, or getting rid of, an obligation, liability, etc.; fulfillment, as by the payment of a debt, or the performance of a trust or duty.

Discharge (v. t.) Release or dismissal from an office, employment, etc.; dismission; as, the discharge of a workman by his employer.

Discharge (v. t.) Legal release from confinement; liberation; as, the discharge of a prisoner.

Discharge (v. t.) The state of being discharged or relieved of a debt, obligation, office, and the like; acquittal.

Discharge (v. t.) That which discharges or releases from an obligation, liability, penalty, etc., as a price of ransom, a legal document.

Discharge (v. t.) A flowing or issuing out; emission; vent; evacuation; also, that which is discharged or emitted; as, a rapid discharge of water from the pipe.

Discharger (n.) One who, or that which, discharges. Specifically, in electricity, an instrument for discharging a Leyden jar, or electrical battery, by making a connection between the two surfaces; a discharging rod.

Dischevele (a.) Disheveled.

Dischurch (v. t.) To deprive of status as a church, or of membership in a church.

Discide (v. t.) To divide; to cleave in two.

Disciferous (a.) Bearing disks.

Discifloral (a.) Alt. of Disciflorous

Disciflorous (a.) Bearing the stamens on a discoid outgrowth of the receptacle; -- said of a subclass of plants. Cf. Calycifloral.

Disciform (a.) Discoid.

Discina (n.) A genus of Branchiopoda, having a disklike shell, attached by one valve, which is perforated by the peduncle.

Discinct (a.) Ungirded; loosely dressed.

Discind (v. t.) To part; to divide.

Disciple (n.) One who receives instruction from another; a scholar; a learner; especially, a follower who has learned to believe in the truth of the doctrine of his teacher; an adherent in doctrine; as, the disciples of Plato; the disciples of our Savior.

Discipled (imp. & p. p.) of Disciple

Discipling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disciple

Disciple (v. t.) To teach; to train.

Disciple (v. t.) To punish; to discipline.

Disciple (v. t.) To make disciples of; to convert to doctrines or principles.

Discipleship (n.) The state of being a disciple or follower in doctrines and precepts.

Discipless (n.) A female disciple.

Disciplinable (a.) Capable of being disciplined or improved by instruction and training.

Disciplinable (a.) Liable or deserving to be disciplined; subject to disciplinary punishment; as, a disciplinable offense.

Disciplinableness (n.) The quality of being improvable by discipline.

Disciplinal (a.) Relating to discipline.

Disciplinant (n.) A flagellant. See Flagellant.

Disciplinarian (a.) Pertaining to discipline.

Disciplinarian (n.) One who disciplines; one who excels in training, especially with training, especially with regard to order and obedience; one who enforces rigid discipline; a stickler for the observance of rules and methods of training; as, he is a better disciplinarian than scholar.

Disciplinarian (n.) A Puritan or Presbyterian; -- because of rigid adherence to religious or church discipline.

Disciplinary (a.) Pertaining to discipline; intended for discipline; corrective; belonging to a course of training.

Discipline (n.) The treatment suited to a disciple or learner; education; development of the faculties by instruction and exercise; training, whether physical, mental, or moral.

Discipline (n.) Training to act in accordance with established rules; accustoming to systematic and regular action; drill.

Discipline (n.) Subjection to rule; submissiveness to order and control; habit of obedience.

Discipline (n.) Severe training, corrective of faults; instruction by means of misfortune, suffering, punishment, etc.

Discipline (n.) Correction; chastisement; punishment inflicted by way of correction and training.

Discipline (n.) The subject matter of instruction; a branch of knowledge.

Discipline (n.) The enforcement of methods of correction against one guilty of ecclesiastical offenses; reformatory or penal action toward a church member.

Discipline (n.) Self-inflicted and voluntary corporal punishment, as penance, or otherwise; specifically, a penitential scourge.

Discipline (n.) A system of essential rules and duties; as, the Romish or Anglican discipline.

Disciplined (imp. & p. p.) of Discipline

Disciplining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discipline

Discipline (v. t.) To educate; to develop by instruction and exercise; to train.

Discipline (v. t.) To accustom to regular and systematic action; to bring under control so as to act systematically; to train to act together under orders; to teach subordination to; to form a habit of obedience in; to drill.

Discipline (v. t.) To improve by corrective and penal methods; to chastise; to correct.

Discipline (v. t.) To inflict ecclesiastical censures and penalties upon.

Discipliner (n.) One who disciplines.

Disclaimed (imp. & p. p.) of Disclaim

Disclaiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disclaim

Disclaim (v. t.) To renounce all claim to deny; ownership of, or responsibility for; to disown; to disavow; to reject.

Disclaim (v. t.) To deny, as a claim; to refuse.

Disclaim (v. t.) To relinquish or deny having a claim; to disavow another's claim; to decline accepting, as an estate, interest, or office.

Disclaim (v. t.) To disavow or renounce all part, claim, or share.

Disclaimer (n.) One who disclaims, disowns, or renounces.

Disclaimer (n.) A denial, disavowal, or renunciation, as of a title, claim, interest, estate, or trust; relinquishment or waiver of an interest or estate.

Disclaimer (n.) A public disavowal, as of pretensions, claims, opinions, and the like.

Disclamation (n.) A disavowing or disowning.

Disclame (v. t.) To disclaim; to expel.

Disclaunder (v. t.) To injure one's good name; to slander.

Discloak (v. t.) To take off a cloak from; to uncloak.

Disclosed (imp. & p. p.) of Disclose

Disclosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disclose

Disclose (v. t.) To unclose; to open; -- applied esp. to eggs in the sense of to hatch.

Disclose (v. t.) To remove a cover or envelope from;; to set free from inclosure; to uncover.

Disclose (v. t.) To lay open or expose to view; to cause to appear; to bring to light; to reveal.

Disclose (v. t.) To make known, as that which has been kept secret or hidden; to reveal; to expose; as, events have disclosed his designs.

Disclose (n.) Disclosure.

Disclosed (p. a.) Represented with wings expanded; -- applied to doves and other birds not of prey.

Discloser (n.) One who discloses.

Disclosure (v. t.) The act of disclosing, uncovering, or revealing; bringing to light; exposure.

Disclosure (v. t.) That which is disclosed or revealed.

Discloud (v. t.) To clear from clouds.

Disclout (v. t.) To divest of a clout.

Disclusion (n.) A shutting off; exclusion.

Discoast (v. i.) To depart; to quit the coast (that is, the side or border) of anything; to be separated.

Discoblastic (a.) Applied to a form of egg cleavage seen in osseous fishes, which occurs only in a small disk that separates from the rest of the egg.

Discoboli (pl. ) of Discobolus

Discobolus (n.) A thrower of the discus.

Discobolus (n.) A statue of an athlete holding the discus, or about to throw it.

Discodactyl (n.) One of the tree frogs.

Discodactylia (n. pl.) A division of amphibians having suctorial disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.

Discodactylous (a.) Having sucking disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.

Discoherent (a.) Incoherent.

Discoid (a.) Having the form of a disk, as those univalve shells which have the whorls in one plane, so as to form a disk, as the pearly nautilus.

Discoid (n.) Anything having the form of a discus or disk; particularly, a discoid shell.

Discoidal (a.) Disk-shaped; discoid.

Discolith (n.) One of a species of coccoliths, having an oval discoidal body, with a thick strongly refracting rim, and a thinner central portion. One of them measures about / of an inch in its longest diameter.

Discolored (imp. & p. p.) of Discolor

Discoloring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discolor

Discolor (v. t.) To alter the natural hue or color of; to change to a different color; to stain; to tinge; as, a drop of wine will discolor water; silver is discolored by sea water.

Discolor (v. t.) To alter the true complexion or appearance of; to put a false hue upon.

Discolorate (v. t.) To discolor.

Discoloration (n.) The act of discoloring, or the state of being discolored; alteration of hue or appearance.

Discoloration (n.) A discolored spot; a stain.

Discolored (a.) Altered in color; /tained.

Discolored (a.) Variegated; of divers colors.

Discomfited (imp. & p. p.) of Discomfit

Discomfiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discomfit

Discomfit (v. t.) To scatter in fight; to put to rout; to defeat.

Discomfit (v. t.) To break up and frustrate the plans of; to balk/ to throw into perplexity and dejection; to disconcert.

Discomfit (a.) Discomfited; overthrown.

Discomfit (n.) Rout; overthrow; discomfiture.

Discomfiture (v. t.) The act of discomfiting, or the state of being discomfited; rout; overthrow; defeat; frustration; confusion and dejection.

Discomforted (imp. & p. p.) of Discomfort

Discomforting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discomfort

Discomfort (v. t.) To discourage; to deject.

Discomfort (v. t.) To destroy or disturb the comfort of; to deprive o/ quiet enjoyment; to make uneasy; to pain; as, a smoky chimney discomforts a family.

Discomfort (v. t.) Discouragement.

Discomfort (v. t.) Want of comfort; uneasiness, mental or physical; disturbance of peace; inquietude; pain; distress; sorrow.

Discomfortable (a.) Causing discomfort; occasioning uneasiness; making sad.

Discomfortable (a.) Destitute of comfort; uncomfortable.

Discommend (v. t.) To mention with disapprobation; to blame; to disapprove.

Discommend (v. t.) To expose to censure or ill favor; to put out of the good graces of any one.

Discommendable (a.) Deserving, disapprobation or blame.

Discommendation (n.) Blame; censure; reproach.

Discommender (n.) One who discommends; a dispraiser.

Discommission (v. t.) To deprive of a commission or trust.

Discommodate (v. t.) To discommode.

Discommoded (imp. & p. p.) of Discommode

Discommoding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discommode

Discommode (v. t.) To put inconvenience; to incommode; to trouble.

Discommodious (a.) Inconvenient; troublesome; incommodious.

Discommodity (n.) Disadvantage; inconvenience.

Discommon (v. t.) To deprive of the right of common.

Discommon (v. t.) To deprive of privileges.

Discommon (v. t.) To deprive of commonable quality, as lands, by inclosing or appropriating.

Discommunity (n.) A lack of common possessions, properties, or relationship.

Discompany (v. t.) To free from company; to dissociate.

Discomplexion (v. t.) To change the complexion or hue of.

Discompliance (n.) Failure or refusal to comply; noncompliance.

Discomposed (imp. & p. p.) of Discompose

Discomposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discompose

Discompose (v. t.) To disarrange; to interfere with; to disturb; to disorder; to unsettle; to break up.

Discompose (v. t.) To throw into disorder; to ruffle; to destroy the composure or equanimity; to agitate.

Discompose (v. t.) To put out of place or service; to discharge; to displace.

Discomposed (a.) Disordered; disturbed; disquieted.

Discomposition (n.) Inconsistency; discordance.

Discomposure (n.) The state of being discomposed; disturbance; disorder; agitation; perturbation.

Discomposure (n.) Discordance; disagreement of parts.

Discompt (v. t.) To discount. See Discount.

Disconcerted (imp. & p. p.) of Disconcert

Disconcerting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disconcert

Disconcert (v. t.) To break up the harmonious progress of; to throw into disorder or confusion; as, the emperor disconcerted the plans of his enemy.

Disconcert (v. t.) To confuse the faculties of; to disturb the composure of; to discompose; to abash.

Disconcert (n.) Want of concert; disagreement.

Disconcertion (n.) The act of disconcerting, or state of being disconcerted; discomposure; perturbation.

Disconducive (a.) Not conductive; impeding; disadvantageous.

Disconformable (a.) Not conformable.

Disconformity (n.) Want of conformity or correspondence; inconsistency; disagreement.

Discongruity (n.) Incongruity; disagreement; unsuitableness.

Disconnected (imp. & p. p.) of Disconnect

Disconnecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disconnect

Disconnect (v. t.) To dissolve the union or connection of; to disunite; to sever; to separate; to disperse.

Disconnection (n.) The act of disconnecting, or state of being disconnected; separation; want of union.

Disconsecrate (v. t.) To deprive of consecration or sacredness.

Discosent (v. i.) To differ; to disagree; to dissent.

Disconsolacy (n.) The state of being disconsolate.

Disconsolate (n.) Disconsolateness.

Disconsolate (v. t.) Destitute of consolation; deeply dejected and dispirited; hopelessly sad; comfortless; filled with grief; as, a bereaved and disconsolate parent.

Disconsolate (v. t.) Inspiring dejection; saddening; cheerless; as, the disconsolate darkness of the winter nights.

Disconsolated (a.) Disconsolate.

Disconsolation (n.) Dejection; grief.

Discontent (a.) Not content; discontented; dissatisfied.

Discontented (imp. & p. p.) of Discontent

Discontenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discontent

Discontent (v. t.) To deprive of content; to make uneasy; to dissatisfy.

Discontent (n.) Want of content; uneasiness and inquietude of mind; dissatisfaction; disquiet.

Discontent (n.) A discontented person; a malcontent.

Discontentation (n.) Discontent.

Discontented (p. p. & a.) Dissatisfied; uneasy in mind; malcontent.

Discontentful (a.) Full of discontent.

Discontenting (a.) Discontented.

Discontenting (a.) Causing discontent; dissatisfying.

Discontentive (a.) Relating or tending to discontent.

Discontentment (n.) The state of being discontented; uneasiness; inquietude.

Discontinuable (a.) Admitting of being discontinued.

Discontinuance (n.) The act of discontinuing, or the state of being discontinued; want of continued connection or continuity; breaking off; cessation; interruption; as, a discontinuance of conversation or intercourse; discontinuance of a highway or of travel.

Discontinuance (n.) A breaking off or interruption of an estate, which happened when an alienation was made by a tenant in tail, or other tenant, seized in right of another, of a larger estate than the tenant was entitled to, whereby the party ousted or injured was driven to his real action, and could not enter. This effect of such alienation is now obviated by statute in both England and the United States.

Discontinuance (n.) The termination of an action in practice by the voluntary act of the plaintiff; an entry on the record that the plaintiff discontinues his action.

Discontinuance (n.) That technical interruption of the proceedings in pleading in an action, which follows where a defendant does not answer the whole of the plaintiff's declaration, and the plaintiff omits to take judgment for the part unanswered.

Discontinuation (n.) Breach or interruption of continuity; separation of parts in a connected series; discontinuance.

Discontinued (imp. & p. p.) of Discontinue

Discontinuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discontinue

Discontinue (v. t.) To interrupt the continuance of; to intermit, as a practice or habit; to put an end to; to cause to cease; to cease using, to stop; to leave off.

Discontinue (v. i.) To lose continuity or cohesion of parts; to be disrupted or broken off.

Discontinue (v. i.) To be separated or severed; to part.

Discontinuee (n.) One whose possession of an estate is broken off, or discontinued; one whose estate is subject to discontinuance.

Discontinuer (n.) One who discontinues, or breaks off or away from; an absentee.

Discontinuity (n.) Want of continuity or cohesion; disunion of parts.

Discontinuor (n.) One who deprives another of the possession of an estate by discontinuance. See Discontinuance, 2.

Discontinuous (a.) Not continuous; interrupted; broken off.

Discontinuous (a.) Exhibiting a dissolution of continuity; gaping.

Disconvenience (n.) Unsuitableness; incongruity.

Disconvenient (a.) Not convenient or congruous; unsuitable; ill-adapted.

Discophora (n. pl.) A division of acalephs or jellyfishes, including most of the large disklike species.

Discord (v. i.) Want of concord or agreement; absence of unity or harmony in sentiment or action; variance leading to contention and strife; disagreement; -- applied to persons or to things, and to thoughts, feelings, or purposes.

Discord (v. i.) Union of musical sounds which strikes the ear harshly or disagreeably, owing to the incommensurability of the vibrations which they produce; want of musical concord or harmony; a chord demanding resolution into a concord.

Discord (n.) To disagree; to be discordant; to jar; to clash; not to suit.

Discordable (a.) That may produce discord; disagreeing; discordant.

Discordance (n.) Alt. of Discordancy

Discordancy (n.) State or quality of being discordant; disagreement; inconsistency.

Discordant (n.) Disagreeing; incongruous; being at variance; clashing; opposing; not harmonious.

Discordant (n.) Dissonant; not in harmony or musical concord; harsh; jarring; as, discordant notes or sounds.

Discordant (n.) Said of strata which lack conformity in direction of bedding, either as in unconformability, or as caused by a fault.

Discordful (a.) Full of discord; contentious.

Discordous (a.) Full of discord.

Discorporate (a.) Deprived of the privileges or form of a body corporate.

Discorrespondent (a.) Incongruous.

Discost (v. i.) Same as Discoast.

Discounsel (v. t.) To dissuade.

Discounted (imp. & p. p.) of Discount

Discounting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discount

Discount (v.) To deduct from an account, debt, charge, and the like; to make an abatement of; as, merchants sometimes discount five or six per cent for prompt payment of bills.

Discount (v.) To lend money upon, deducting the discount or allowance for interest; as, the banks discount notes and bills of exchange.

Discount (v.) To take into consideration beforehand; to anticipate and form conclusions concerning (an event).

Discount (v.) To leave out of account; to take no notice of.

Discount (v. i.) To lend, or make a practice of lending, money, abating the discount; as, the discount for sixty or ninety days.

Discount (v. t.) A counting off or deduction made from a gross sum on any account whatever; an allowance upon an account, debt, demand, price asked, and the like; something taken or deducted.

Discount (v. t.) A deduction made for interest, in advancing money upon, or purchasing, a bill or note not due; payment in advance of interest upon money.

Discount (v. t.) The rate of interest charged in discounting.

Discountable (a.) Capable of being, or suitable to be, discounted; as, certain forms are necessary to render notes discountable at a bank.

Discountenanced (imp. & p. p.) of Discountenance

Discountenancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discountenance

Discountenance (v. t.) To ruffle or discompose the countenance of; to put of countenance; to put to shame; to abash.

Discountenance (v. t.) To refuse to countenance, or give the support of one's approval to; to give one's influence against; to restrain by cold treatment; to discourage.

Discountenance (n.) Unfavorable aspect; unfriendly regard; cold treatment; disapprobation; whatever tends to check or discourage.

Discountenancer (n.) One who discountenances; one who disfavors.

Discounter (n.) One who discounts; a discount broker.

Discouraged (imp. & p. p.) of Discourage

Discouraging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discourage

Discourage (v. t.) To extinguish the courage of; to dishearten; to depress the spirits of; to deprive of confidence; to deject; -- the opposite of encourage; as, he was discouraged in his undertaking; he need not be discouraged from a like attempt.

Discourage (v. t.) To dishearten one with respect to; to discountenance; to seek to check by disfavoring; to deter one from; as, they discouraged his efforts.

Discourage (n.) Lack of courage; cowardliness.

Discourageable (a.) Capable of being discouraged; easily disheartened.

Discouragement (n.) The act of discouraging, or the state of being discouraged; depression or weakening of confidence; dejection.

Discouragement (n.) That which discourages; that which deters, or tends to deter, from an undertaking, or from the prosecution of anything; a determent; as, the revolution was commenced under every possible discouragement.

Discourager (n.) One who discourages.

Discouraging (a.) Causing or indicating discouragement.

Discoure (v. t.) To discover.

Discourse (n.) The power of the mind to reason or infer by running, as it were, from one fact or reason to another, and deriving a conclusion; an exercise or act of this power; reasoning; range of reasoning faculty.

Discourse (n.) Conversation; talk.

Discourse (n.) The art and manner of speaking and conversing.

Discourse (n.) Consecutive speech, either written or unwritten, on a given line of thought; speech; treatise; dissertation; sermon, etc.; as, the preacher gave us a long discourse on duty.

Discourse (n.) Dealing; transaction.

Discoursed (imp. & p. p.) of Discourse

Discoursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discourse

Discourse (v. i.) To exercise reason; to employ the mind in judging and inferring; to reason.

Discourse (v. i.) To express one's self in oral discourse; to expose one's views; to talk in a continuous or formal manner; to hold forth; to speak; to converse.

Discourse (v. i.) To relate something; to tell.

Discourse (v. i.) To treat of something in writing and formally.

Discourse (v. t.) To treat of; to expose or set forth in language.

Discourse (v. t.) To utter or give forth; to speak.

Discourse (v. t.) To talk to; to confer with.

Discourser (n.) One who discourse; a narrator; a speaker; an haranguer.

Discourser (n.) The writer of a treatise or dissertation.

Discoursive (a.) Reasoning; characterized by reasoning; passing from premises to consequences; discursive.

Discoursive (a.) Containing dialogue or conversation; interlocutory.

Discoursive (a.) Inclined to converse; conversable; communicative; as, a discoursive man.

Discoursive (n.) The state or quality of being discoursive or able to reason.

Discourteous (a.) Uncivil; rude; wanting in courtesy or good manners; uncourteous.

Discourtesy (n.) Rudeness of behavior or language; ill manners; manifestation of disrespect; incivility.

Discourtship (n.) Want of courtesy.

Discous (a.) Disklike; discoid.

Discovenant (v. t.) To dissolve covenant with.

Discovered (imp. & p. p.) of Discover

Discovering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discover

Discover (v. t.) To uncover.

Discover (v. t.) To disclose; to lay open to view; to make visible; to reveal; to make known; to show (what has been secret, unseen, or unknown).

Discover (v. t.) To obtain for the first time sight or knowledge of, as of a thing existing already, but not perceived or known; to find; to ascertain; to espy; to detect.

Discover (v. t.) To manifest without design; to show.

Discover (v. t.) To explore; to examine.

Discover (v. i.) To discover or show one's self.

Discoverability (n.) The quality of being discoverable.

Discoverable (a.) Capable of being discovered, found out, or perceived; as, many minute animals are discoverable only by the help of the microscope; truths discoverable by human industry.

Discoverer (n.) One who discovers; one who first comes to the knowledge of something; one who discovers an unknown country, or a new principle, truth, or fact.

Discoverer (n.) A scout; an explorer.

Discoverment (n.) Discovery.

Discovert (a.) Not covert; not within the bonds of matrimony; unmarried; -- applied either to a woman who has never married or to a widow.

Discovert (n.) An uncovered place or part.

Discoverture (n.) Discovery.

Discoverture (n.) A state of being released from coverture; freedom of a woman from the coverture of a husband.

Discoveries (pl. ) of Discovery

Discovery (n.) The action of discovering; exposure to view; laying open; showing; as, the discovery of a plot.

Discovery (n.) A making known; revelation; disclosure; as, a bankrupt is bound to make a full discovery of his assets.

Discovery (n.) Finding out or ascertaining something previously unknown or unrecognized; as, Harvey's discovery of the circulation of the blood.

Discovery (n.) That which is discovered; a thing found out, or for the first time ascertained or recognized; as, the properties of the magnet were an important discovery.

Discovery (n.) Exploration; examination.

Discradle (v. t.) To take from a cradle.

Discredit (n.) The act of discrediting or disbelieving, or the state of being discredited or disbelieved; as, later accounts have brought the story into discredit.

Discredit (n.) Hence, some degree of dishonor or disesteem; ill repute; reproach; -- applied to persons or things.

Discredited (imp. & p. p.) of Discredit

Discrediting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discredit

Discredit (v. t.) To refuse credence to; not to accept as true; to disbelieve; as, the report is discredited.

Discredit (v. t.) To deprive of credibility; to destroy confidence or trust in; to cause disbelief in the accuracy or authority of.

Discredit (v. t.) To deprive of credit or good repute; to bring reproach upon; to make less reputable; to disgrace.

Discreditable (a.) Not creditable; injurious to reputation; disgraceful; disreputable.

Discreditor (n.) One who discredits.

Discreet (superl.) Possessed of discernment, especially in avoiding error or evil, and in the adaptation of means to ends; prudent; sagacious; judicious; not rash or heedless; cautious.

Discreet (superl.) Differing; distinct.

-ances (pl. ) of Discrepancy

-ancies (pl. ) of Discrepancy

Discrepance (n.) Alt. of Discrepancy

Discrepancy (n.) The state or quality of being discrepant; disagreement; variance; discordance; dissimilarity; contrariety.

Discrepant (a.) Discordant; at variance; disagreeing; contrary; different.

Discrepant (n.) A dissident.

Discrete (a.) Separate; distinct; disjunct.

Discrete (a.) Disjunctive; containing a disjunctive or discretive clause; as, I resign my life, but not my honor, is a discrete proposition.

Discrete (a.) Separate; not coalescent; -- said of things usually coalescent.

Discrete (v. t.) To separate.

Discretely (adv.) Separately; disjunctively.

Discretion (n.) Disjunction; separation.

Discretion (n.) The quality of being discreet; wise conduct and management; cautious discernment, especially as to matters of propriety and self-control; prudence; circumspection; wariness.

Discretion (n.) Discrimination.

Discretion (n.) Freedom to act according to one's own judgment; unrestrained exercise of choice or will.

Discretional () Alt. of Discretionary

Discretionary () Left to discretion; unrestrained except by discretion or judgment; as, an ambassador with discretionary powers.

Discretionally (adv.) Alt. of Discretionarily

Discretionarily (adv.) At discretion; according to one's discretion or judgment.

Discretive (a.) Marking distinction or separation; disjunctive.

Discretively (adv.) In a discretive manner.

Discriminable (a.) Capable of being discriminated.

Discriminal (a.) In palmistry, applied to the line which marks the separation between the hand and the arm.

Discriminant (n.) The eliminant of the n partial differentials of any homogenous function of n variables. See Eliminant.

Discriminate (a.) Having the difference marked; distinguished by certain tokens.

Discriminated (imp. & p. p.) of Discriminate

Discriminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discriminate

Discriminate (v. t.) To set apart as being different; to mark as different; to separate from another by discerning differences; to distinguish.

Discriminate (v. i.) To make a difference or distinction; to distinguish accurately; as, in judging of evidence, we should be careful to discriminate between probability and slight presumption.

Discriminate (v. i.) To treat unequally.

Discriminate (v. i.) To impose unequal tariffs for substantially the same service.

Discriminately (adv.) In a discriminating manner; distinctly.

Discriminateness (n.) The state of being discriminated; distinctness.

Discriminating (a.) Marking a difference; distinguishing.

Discrimination (n.) The act of discriminating, distinguishing, or noting and marking differences.

Discrimination (n.) The state of being discriminated, distinguished, or set apart.

Discrimination (n.) The arbitrary imposition of unequal tariffs for substantially the same service.

Discrimination (n.) The quality of being discriminating; faculty of nicely distinguishing; acute discernment; as, to show great discrimination in the choice of means.

Discrimination (n.) That which discriminates; mark of distinction.

Discriminative (a.) Marking a difference; distinguishing; distinctive; characteristic.

Discriminative (a.) Observing distinctions; making differences; discriminating.

Discriminatively (adv.) With discrimination or distinction.

Discriminator (n.) One who discriminates.

Discriminatory (a.) Discriminative.

Discriminous (a.) Hazardous; dangerous.

Discrive (v. t.) To describe.

Discrowned (imp. & p. p.) of Discrown

Discrowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discrown

Discrown (v. t.) To deprive of a crown.

Discruciated (imp. & p. p.) of Discruciate

Discruciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discruciate

Discruciate (v. t.) To torture; to excruciate.

Discubitory (a.) Leaning; fitted for a reclining posture.

Disculpated (imp. & p. p.) of Disculpate

Disculpating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disculpate

Disculpate (v. t.) To free from blame or the imputation of a fault; to exculpate.

Disculpation (n.) Exculpation.

Disculpatory (a.) Tending to exculpate; exculpatory.

Discumbency (n.) The act of reclining at table according to the manner of the ancients at their meals.

Discumber (v. t.) To free from that which cumbers or impedes; to disencumber.

Discure (v. t.) To discover; to reveal; to discoure.

Discurrent (a.) Not current or free to circulate; not in use.

Discursion (n.) The act of discoursing or reasoning; range, as from thought to thought.

Discursist (n.) A discourser.

Discursive (a.) Passing from one thing to another; ranging over a wide field; roving; digressive; desultory.

Discursive (a.) Reasoning; proceeding from one ground to another, as in reasoning; argumentative.

Discursory (a.) Argumentative; discursive; reasoning.

Discursus (n.) Argumentation; ratiocination; discursive reasoning.

Discuses (pl. ) of Discus

Disci (pl. ) of Discus

Discus (n.) A quoit; a circular plate of some heavy material intended to be pitched or hurled as a trial of strength and skill.

Discus (n.) The exercise with the discus.

Discus (n.) A disk. See Disk.

Discussed (imp. & p. p.) of Discuss

Discussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discuss

Discuss (v. t.) To break to pieces; to shatter.

Discuss (v. t.) To break up; to disperse; to scatter; to dissipate; to drive away; -- said especially of tumors.

Discuss (v. t.) To shake; to put away; to finish.

Discuss (v. t.) To examine in detail or by disputation; to reason upon by presenting favorable and adverse considerations; to debate; to sift; to investigate; to ventilate.

Discuss (v. t.) To deal with, in eating or drinking.

Discuss (v. t.) To examine or search thoroughly; to exhaust a remedy against, as against a principal debtor before proceeding against the surety.

Discusser (n.) One who discusses; one who sifts or examines.

Discussion (n.) The act or process of discussing by breaking up, or dispersing, as a tumor, or the like.

Discussion (n.) The act of discussing or exchanging reasons; examination by argument; debate; disputation; agitation.

Discussional (a.) Pertaining to discussion.

Discussive (a.) Able or tending to discuss or disperse tumors or coagulated matter.

Discussive (a.) Doubt-dispelling; decisive.

Discussive (n.) A medicine that discusses or disperses morbid humors; a discutient.

Discutient (a.) Serving to disperse morbid matter; discussive; as, a discutient application.

Discutient (n.) An agent (as a medicinal application) which serves to disperse morbid matter.

Disdain (v. t.) A feeling of contempt and aversion; the regarding anything as unworthy of or beneath one; scorn.

Disdain (v. t.) That which is worthy to be disdained or regarded with contempt and aversion.

Disdain (v. t.) The state of being despised; shame.

Disdained (imp. & p. p.) of Disdain

Disdaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disdain

Disdain (v. t.) To think unworthy; to deem unsuitable or unbecoming; as, to disdain to do a mean act.

Disdain (v. t.) To reject as unworthy of one's self, or as not deserving one's notice; to look with scorn upon; to scorn, as base acts, character, etc.

Disdain (v. i.) To be filled with scorn; to feel contemptuous anger; to be haughty.

Disdained (a.) Disdainful.

Disdainful (a.) Full of disdain; expressing disdain; scornful; contemptuous; haughty.

Disdainishly (adv.) Disdainfully.

Disdainous (a.) Disdainful.

Disdainously (adv.) Disdainfully.

Disdeify (v. t.) To divest or deprive of deity or of a deific rank or condition.

Disdeign (v. t.) To disdain.

Disdiaclast (n.) One of the dark particles forming the doubly refracting disks of muscle fibers.

Disdiapason (n.) An interval of two octaves, or a fifteenth; -- called also bisdiapason.

Disease (n.) Lack of ease; uneasiness; trouble; vexation; disquiet.

Disease (n.) An alteration in the state of the body or of some of its organs, interrupting or disturbing the performance of the vital functions, and causing or threatening pain and weakness; malady; affection; illness; sickness; disorder; -- applied figuratively to the mind, to the moral character and habits, to institutions, the state, etc.

Diseased (imp. & p. p.) of Disease

Diseasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disease

Disease (v. t.) To deprive of ease; to disquiet; to trouble; to distress.

Disease (v. t.) To derange the vital functions of; to afflict with disease or sickness; to disorder; -- used almost exclusively in the participle diseased.

Diseased (a.) Afflicted with disease.

Diseasedness (n.) The state of being diseased; a morbid state; sickness.

Diseaseful (a.) Causing uneasiness.

Diseaseful (a.) Abounding with disease; producing diseases; as, a diseaseful climate.

Diseasefulness (n.) The quality of being diseaseful; trouble; trial.

Diseasement (n.) Uneasiness; inconvenience.

Disedge (v. t.) To deprive of an edge; to blunt; to dull.

Disedify (v. t.) To fail of edifying; to injure.

Diselder (v. t.) To deprive of an elder or elders, or of the office of an elder.

Diselenide (n.) A selenide containing two atoms of selenium in each molecule.

Disembarked (imp. & p. p.) of Disembark

Disembarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembark

Disembark (v. t.) To remove from on board a vessel; to put on shore; to land; to debark; as, the general disembarked the troops.

Disembark (v. i.) To go ashore out of a ship or boat; to leave a ship; to debark.

Disembarkation (n.) The act of disembarking.

Disembarkment (n.) Disembarkation.

Disembarrassed (imp. & p. p.) of Disembarrass

Disembarrassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembarrass

Disembarrass (v. t.) To free from embarrassment, or perplexity; to clear; to extricate.

Disembarrassment (n.) Freedom or relief from impediment or perplexity.

Disembayed (imp. & p. p.) of Disembay

Disembaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembay

Disembay (v. t.) To clear from a bay.

Disembellish (v. t.) To deprive of embellishment; to disadorn.

Disembitter (v. t.) To free from

Disembodied (a.) Divested of a body; ceased to be corporal; incorporeal.

Disembodiment (n.) The act of disembodying, or the state of being disembodied.

Disembodied (imp. & p. p.) of Disembody

Disembodying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembody

Disembody (v. t.) To divest of the body or corporeal existence.

Disembody (v. t.) To disarm and disband, as a body of soldiers.

Disembogued (imp. & p. p.) of Disembogue

Disemboguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembogue

Disembogue (v. t.) To pour out or discharge at the mouth, as a stream; to vent; to discharge into an ocean, a lake, etc.

Disembogue (v. t.) To eject; to cast forth.

Disembogue (v. i.) To become discharged; to flow out; to find vent; to pour out contents.

Disemboguement (n.) The act of disemboguing; discharge.

Disembossom (v. t.) To separate from the bosom.

Disembowel (v. t.) To take or let out the bowels or interior parts of; to eviscerate.

Disembowel (v. t.) To take or draw from the body, as the web of a spider.

Disembowelment (n.) The act of disemboweling, or state of being disemboweled; evisceration.

Disembowered (a.) Deprived of, or removed from, a bower.

Disembrangle (v. t.) To free from wrangling or litigation.

Disembroiled (imp. & p. p.) of Disembroil

Disembroiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembroil

Disembroil (v. t.) To disentangle; to free from perplexity; to extricate from confusion.

Disemploy (v. t.) To throw out of employment.

Disemployment (n.) The state of being disemployed, or deprived of employment.

Disempower (v. t.) To deprive of power; to divest of strength.

Disenable (v. t.) To disable; to disqualify.

Disenamor (v. t.) To free from the captivity of love.

Disenchained (a.) Freed from restraint; unrestrained.

Disenchanted (imp. & p. p.) of Disenchant

Disenchanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disenchant

Disenchant (v. t.) To free from enchantment; to deliver from the power of charms or spells; to free from fascination or delusion.

Disenchanter (n.) One who, or that which, disenchants.

Disenchantment (n.) The act of disenchanting, or state of being disenchanted.

Disencharm (v. t.) To free from the influence of a charm or spell; to disenchant.

Disenclose (v. t.) See Disinclose.

Disencouragement (n.) Discouragement.

Disencrese (v. i.) To decrease.

Disencrese (n.) Decrease.

Disencumbered (imp. & p. p.) of Disencumber

Disencumbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disencumber

Disencumber (v. t.) To free from encumbrance, or from anything which clogs, impedes, or obstructs; to disburden.

Disencumbrance (n.) Freedom or deliverance from encumbrance, or anything burdensome or troublesome.

Disendow (v. t.) To deprive of an endowment, as a church.

Disendowment (n.) The act of depriving of an endowment or endowments.

Disenfranchise (v. t.) To disfranchise; to deprive of the rights of a citizen.

Disengaged (imp. & p. p.) of Disengage

Disengaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disengage

Disengage (v. t.) To release from that with which anything is engaged, engrossed, involved, or entangled; to extricate; to detach; to set free; to liberate; to clear; as, to disengage one from a party, from broils and controversies, from an oath, promise, or occupation; to disengage the affections a favorite pursuit, the mind from study.

Disengage (v. i.) To release one's self; to become detached; to free one's self.

Disengaged (a.) Not engaged; free from engagement; at leisure; free from occupation or care; vacant.

Disengagement (n.) The act of disengaging or setting free, or the state of being disengaged.

Disengagement (n.) Freedom from engrossing occupation; leisure.

Disengaging (a.) Loosing; setting free; detaching.

Disennoble (v. t.) To deprive of that which ennobles; to degrade.

Disenrolled (imp. & p. p.) of Disenroll

Disenrolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disenroll

Disenroll (v. i.) To erase from a roll or list.

Disensanity (n.) Insanity; folly.

Disenshrouded (a.) Freed from a shroudlike covering; unveiled.

Disenslave (v. t.) To free from bondage or slavery; to disenthrall.

Disentail (v. t.) To free from entailment.

Disentangled (imp. & p. p.) of Disentangle

Disentangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disentangle

Disentangle (v. t.) To free from entanglement; to release from a condition of being intricately and confusedly involved or interlaced; to reduce to orderly arrangement; to straighten out; as, to disentangle a skein of yarn.

Disentangle (v. t.) To extricate from complication and perplexity; disengage from embarrassing connection or intermixture; to disembroil; to set free; to separate.

Disentanglement (n.) The act of disentangling or clearing from difficulties.

Disenter (v. t.) See Disinter.

Disenthrall (v. t.) To release from thralldom or slavery; to give freedom to; to disinthrall.

Disenthrallment (n.) Liberation from bondage; emancipation; disinthrallment.

Disenthrone (v. t.) To dethrone; to depose from sovereign authority.

Disentitle (v. t.) To deprive of title or claim.

Disentomb (v. t.) To take out from a tomb; a disinter.

Disentrail (v. t.) To disembowel; to let out or draw forth, as the entrails.

Disentrance (v. t.) To awaken from a trance or an enchantment.

Disentwine (v. t.) To free from being entwined or twisted.

Disepalous (a.) Having two sepals; two-sepaled.

Disert (a.) Eloquent.

Disertitude (n.) Eloquence.

Diserty (adv.) Expressly; clearly; eloquently.

Disespouse (v. t.) To release from espousal or plighted faith.

Disestablish (v. t.) To unsettle; to break up (anything established); to deprive, as a church, of its connection with the state.

Disestablishment (n.) The act or process of unsettling or breaking up that which has been established; specifically, the withdrawal of the support of the state from an established church; as, the disestablishment and disendowment of the Irish Church by Act of Parliament.

Disestablishment (n.) The condition of being disestablished.

Disesteem (n.) Want of esteem; low estimation, inclining to dislike; disfavor; disrepute.

Disesteemed (imp. & p. p.) of Disesteem

Disesteeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disesteem

Disesteem (v. t.) To feel an absence of esteem for; to regard with disfavor or slight contempt; to slight.

Disesteem (v. t.) To deprive of esteem; to bring into disrepute; to cause to be regarded with disfavor.

Disesteemer (n.) One who disesteems.

Disestimation (n.) Disesteem.

Disexercise (v. t.) To deprive of exercise; to leave untrained.

Disfame (n.) Disrepute.

Disfancy (v. t.) To dislike.

Disfashion (v. t.) To disfigure.

Disfavor (n.) Want of favor of favorable regard; disesteem; disregard.

Disfavor (n.) The state of not being in favor; a being under the displeasure of some one; state of unacceptableness; as, to be in disfavor at court.

Disfavor (n.) An unkindness; a disobliging act.

Disfavored (imp. & p. p.) of Disfavor

Disfavoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disfavor

Disfavor (v. t.) To withhold or withdraw favor from; to regard with disesteem; to show disapprobation of; to discountenance.

Disfavor (v. t.) To injure the form or looks of.

Disfavorable (a.) Unfavorable.

Disfavorably (adv.) Unpropitiously.

Disfavorer (n.) One who disfavors.

Disfeature (v. t.) To deprive of features; to mar the features of.

Disfellowship (v. t.) To exclude from fellowship; to refuse intercourse with, as an associate.

Disfiguration (n.) The act of disfiguring, or the state of being disfigured; defacement; deformity; disfigurement.

Disfigured (imp. & p. p.) of Disfigure

Disfiguring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disfigure

Disfigure (v. t.) To mar the figure of; to render less complete, perfect, or beautiful in appearance; to deface; to deform.

Disfigure (n.) Disfigurement; deformity.

Disfigurement (n.) Act of disfiguring, or state of being disfigured; deformity.

Disfigurement (n.) That which disfigures; a defacement; a blot.

Disfigurer (n.) One who disfigures.

Disflesh (v. t.) To reduce the flesh or obesity of.

Disforest (v. t.) To disafforest.

Disforest (v. t.) To clear or deprive of forests or trees.

Disforestation (n.) The act of clearing land of forests.

Disformity (n.) Discordance or diversity of form; unlikeness in form.

Disfranchised (imp. & p. p.) of Disfranchise

Disfranchising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disfranchise

Disfranchise (v. t.) To deprive of a franchise or chartered right; to dispossess of the rights of a citizen, or of a particular privilege, as of voting, holding office, etc.

Disfranchisement (n.) The act of disfranchising, or the state disfranchised; deprivation of privileges of citizenship or of chartered immunities.

Disfriar (v. t.) To depose or withdraw from the condition of a friar.

Disfrock (v. t.) To unfrock.

Disfurnished (imp. & p. p.) of Disfurnish

Disfurnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disfurnish

Disfurnish (v. t.) To deprive of that with which anything is furnished (furniture, equipments, etc.); to strip; to render destitute; to divest.

Disfurnishment (n.) The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.

Disfurniture (n.) The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.

Disfurniture (v. t.) To disfurnish.

Disgage (v. t.) To free from a gage or pledge; to disengage.

Disgallant (v. t.) To deprive of gallantry.

Disgarland (v. t.) To strip of a garland.

Disgarnish (v. t.) To divest of garniture; to disfurnish; to dismantle.

Disgarrison (v. t.) To deprive of a garrison.

Disgaveled (imp. & p. p.) of Disgavel

Disgaveled () of Disgavel

Disgaveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disgavel

Disgavel (v. t.) To deprive of that principal quality of gavelkind tenure by which lands descend equally among all the sons of the tenant; -- said of lands.

Disgest (v. t.) To digest.

Disgestion (n.) Digestion.

Disglorified (imp. & p. p.) of Disglorify

Disglorifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disglorify

Disglorify (v. t.) To deprive of glory; to treat with indignity.

Disglory (n.) Dishonor.

Disgorged (imp. & p. p.) of Disgorge

Disgorging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disgorge

Disgorge (v. t.) To eject or discharge by the throat and mouth; to vomit; to pour forth or throw out with violence, as if from the mouth; to discharge violently or in great quantities from a confined place.

Disgorge (v. t.) To give up unwillingly as what one has wrongfully seized and appropriated; to make restitution of; to surrender; as, he was compelled to disgorge his ill-gotten gains.

Disgorge (v. i.) To vomit forth what anything contains; to discharge; to make restitution.

Disgorgement (n.) The act of disgorging; a vomiting; that which is disgorged.

Disgospel (v. i.) To be inconsistent with, or act contrary to, the precepts of the gospel; to pervert the gospel.

Disgrace (n.) The condition of being out of favor; loss of favor, regard, or respect.

Disgrace (n.) The state of being dishonored, or covered with shame; dishonor; shame; ignominy.

Disgrace (n.) That which brings dishonor; cause of shame or reproach; great discredit; as, vice is a disgrace to a rational being.

Disgrace (n.) An act of unkindness; a disfavor.

Disgraced (imp. & p. p.) of Disgrace

Disgracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disgrace

Disgrace (n.) To put out favor; to dismiss with dishonor.

Disgrace (n.) To do disfavor to; to bring reproach or shame upon; to dishonor; to treat or cover with ignominy; to lower in estimation.

Disgrace (n.) To treat discourteously; to upbraid; to revile.

Disgraceful (a.) Bringing disgrace; causing shame; shameful; dishonorable; unbecoming; as, profaneness is disgraceful to a man.

Disgracer (n.) One who disgraces.

Disgracious (a.) Wanting grace; unpleasing; disagreeable.

Disgracive (a.) Disgracing.

Disgradation (n.) Degradation; a stripping of titles and honors.

Disgrade (v. t.) To degrade.

Disgraduate (v. t.) To degrade; to reduce in rank.

Disgregate (v. t.) To disperse; to scatter; -- opposite of congregate.

Disgregation (n.) The process of separation, or the condition of being separate, as of the molecules of a body.

Disgruntle (v. t.) To dissatisfy; to disaffect; to anger.

Disguised (imp. & p. p.) of Disguise

Disguising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disguise

Disguise (v. t.) To change the guise or appearance of; especially, to conceal by an unusual dress, or one intended to mislead or deceive.

Disguise (v. t.) To hide by a counterfeit appearance; to cloak by a false show; to mask; as, to disguise anger; to disguise one's sentiments, character, or intentions.

Disguise (v. t.) To affect or change by liquor; to intoxicate.

Disguise (n.) A dress or exterior put on for purposes of concealment or of deception; as, persons doing unlawful acts in disguise are subject to heavy penalties.

Disguise (n.) Artificial language or manner assumed for deception; false appearance; counterfeit semblance or show.

Disguise (n.) Change of manner by drink; intoxication.

Disguise (n.) A masque or masquerade.

Disguisedfy (adv.) In disguise.

Disguisedness (n.) The state of being disguised.

Disguisement (n.) Disguise.

Disguiser (n.) One who, or that which, disguises.

Disguiser (n.) One who wears a disguise; an actor in a masquerade; a masker.

Disguising (n.) A masque or masquerade.

Disgusted (imp. & p. p.) of Disgust

Disgusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disgust

Disgust (v. t.) To provoke disgust or strong distaste in; to cause (any one) loathing, as of the stomach; to excite aversion in; to offend the moral taste of; -- often with at, with, or by.

Disgust (v. t.) Repugnance to what is offensive; aversion or displeasure produced by something loathsome; loathing; strong distaste; -- said primarily of the sickening opposition felt for anything which offends the physical organs of taste; now rather of the analogous repugnance excited by anything extremely unpleasant to the moral taste or higher sensibilities of our nature; as, an act of cruelty may excite disgust.

Disgustful (a.) Provoking disgust; offensive to the taste; exciting aversion; disgusting.

Disgustfulness (n.) The state of being disgustful.

Disgusting (a.) That causes disgust; sickening; offensive; revolting.

Dish (n.) A vessel, as a platter, a plate, a bowl, used for serving up food at the table.

Dish (n.) The food served in a dish; hence, any particular kind of food; as, a cold dish; a warm dish; a delicious dish. A dish fit for the gods.

Dish (n.) The state of being concave, or like a dish, or the degree of such concavity; as, the dish of a wheel.

Dish (n.) A hollow place, as in a field.

Dish (n.) A trough about 28 inches long, 4 deep, and 6 wide, in which ore is measured.

Dish (n.) That portion of the produce of a mine which is paid to the land owner or proprietor.

Dished (imp. & p. p.) of Dish

Dishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dish

Dish (v. t.) To put in a dish, ready for the table.

Dish (v. t.) To make concave, or depress in the middle, like a dish; as, to dish a wheel by inclining the spokes.

Dish (v. t.) To frustrate; to beat; to ruin.

Dishabilitate (v. t.) To disqualify.

Dishabille (n.) An undress; a loose, negligent dress; deshabille.

Dishabit (v. t.) To dislodge.

Dishabited (p. a.) Rendered uninhabited.

Dishabituate (v. t.) To render unaccustomed.

Dishable (v. t.) To disable.

Dishable (v. t.) To disparage.

Dishallow (v. t.) To make unholy; to profane.

Disharmonious (a.) Unharmonious; discordant.

Disharmony (n.) Want of harmony; discord; incongruity.

Dishaunt (v. t.) To leave; to quit; to cease to haunt.

Dishcloth (n.) A cloth used for washing dishes.

Dishclout (n.) A dishcloth.

Disheart (v. t.) To dishearten.

Disheartened (imp. & p. p.) of Dishearten

Disheartening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dishearten

Dishearten (v. t.) To discourage; to deprive of courage and hope; to depress the spirits of; to deject.

Disheartenment (n.) Discouragement; dejection; depression of spirits.

Disheir (v. t.) To disinherit.

Dishelm (v. t.) To deprive of the helmet.

Disherison (n.) The act of disheriting, or debarring from inheritance; disinhersion.

Disherited (imp. & p. p.) of Disherit

Disheriting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disherit

Disherit (v. t.) To disinherit; to cut off, or detain, from the possession or enjoyment of an inheritance.

Disheritance (n.) The act of disinheriting or state of being disinherited; disinheritance.

Disheritor (n.) One who puts another out of his inheritance.

Disheveled (imp. & p. p.) of Dishevel

Dishevelled () of Dishevel

Disheveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dishevel

Dishevelling () of Dishevel

Dishevel (v. t.) To suffer (the hair) to hang loosely or disorderly; to spread or throw (the hair) in disorder; -- used chiefly in the passive participle.

Dishevel (v. t.) To spread loosely or disorderly.

Dishevel (v. i.) To be spread in disorder or hang negligently, as the hair.

Dishevele (p. p. & a.) Disheveled.

Disheveled (a.) Having in loose disorder; disarranged; as, disheveled hair.

Disheveled (a.) Having the hair in loose disorder.

Dishfuls (pl. ) of Dishful

Dishful (n.) As much as a dish holds when full.

Dishing (a.) Dish-shaped; concave.

Dishonest (a.) Dishonorable; shameful; indecent; unchaste; lewd.

Dishonest (a.) Dishonored; disgraced; disfigured.

Dishonest (a.) Wanting in honesty; void of integrity; faithless; disposed to cheat or defraud; not trustworthy; as, a dishonest man.

Dishonest (a.) Characterized by fraud; indicating a want of probity; knavish; fraudulent; unjust.

Dishonest (v. t.) To disgrace; to dishonor; as, to dishonest a maid.

Dishonestly (adv.) In a dishonest manner.

Dishonesty (n.) Dishonor; dishonorableness; shame.

Dishonesty (n.) Want of honesty, probity, or integrity in principle; want of fairness and straightforwardness; a disposition to defraud, deceive, or betray; faithlessness.

Dishonesty (n.) Violation of trust or of justice; fraud; any deviation from probity; a dishonest act.

Dishonesty (n.) Lewdness; unchastity.

Dishonor (n.) Lack of honor; disgrace; ignominy; shame; reproach.

Dishonor (n.) The nonpayment or nonacceptance of commercial paper by the party on whom it is drawn.

Dishonored (imp. & p. p.) of Dishonor

Dishonoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dishonor

Dishonor (v. t.) To deprive of honor; to disgrace; to bring reproach or shame on; to treat with indignity, or as unworthy in the sight of others; to stain the character of; to lessen the reputation of; as, the duelist dishonors himself to maintain his honor.

Dishonor (v. t.) To violate the chastity of; to debauch.

Dishonor (v. t.) To refuse or decline to accept or pay; -- said of a bill, check, note, or draft which is due or presented; as, to dishonor a bill exchange.

Dishonorable (a.) Wanting in honor; not honorable; bringing or deserving dishonor; staining the character, and lessening the reputation; shameful; disgraceful; base.

Dishonorable (a.) Wanting in honor or esteem; disesteemed.

Dishonorary (a.) Bringing dishonor on; tending to disgrace; lessening reputation.

Dishonorer (n.) One who dishonors or disgraces; one who treats another indignity.

Dishorn (v. t.) To deprive of horns; as, to dishorn cattle.

Dishorse (v. t.) To dismount.

Dishouse (v. t.) To deprive of house or home.

Dishumor (n.) Ill humor.

Dishumor (v. t.) To deprive of humor or desire; to put out of humor.

Dishwasher (n.) One who, or that which, washes dishes.

Dishwasher (n.) A European bird; the wagtail.

Dishwater (n.) Water in which dishes have been washed.

Disillusion (n.) The act or process of freeing from an illusion, or the state of being freed therefrom.

Disillusion (v. t.) To free from an illusion; to disillusionize.

Disillusionize (v. t.) To disenchant; to free from illusion.

Disillusionment (n.) The act of freeing from an illusion, or the state of being freed therefrom.

Disimbitter (v. t.) To free from bitterness.

Disimpark (v. t.) To free from the barriers or restrictions of a park.

Disimpassioned (a.) Free from warmth of passion or feeling.

Disimprove (v. t.) To make worse; -- the opposite of improve.

Disimprove (v. i.) To grow worse; to deteriorate.

Disimprovement (n.) Reduction from a better to a worse state; as, disimprovement of the earth.

Disincarcerate (v. t.) To liberate from prison.

Disinclination (n.) The state of being disinclined; want of propensity, desire, or affection; slight aversion or dislike; indisposition.

Disinclined (imp. & p. p.) of Disincline

Disinclining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disincline

Disincline (v. t.) To incline away the affections of; to excite a slight aversion in; to indispose; to make unwilling; to alienate.

Disinclose (v. t.) To free from being inclosed.

Disincorporated (imp. & p. p.) of Disincorporate

Disincorporating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disincorporate

Disincorporate (v. t.) To deprive of corporate powers, rights, or privileges; to divest of the condition of a corporate body.

Disincorporate (v. t.) To detach or separate from a corporation.

Disincorporate (a.) Separated from, or not included in, a corporation; disincorporated.

Disincorporation (n.) Deprivation of the rights and privileges of a corporation.

Disinfected (imp. & p. p.) of Disinfect

Disinfecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinfect

Disinfect (v. t.) To free from infectious or contagious matter; to destroy putrefaction; to purify; to make innocuous.

Disinfectant (n.) That which disinfects; an agent for removing the causes of infection, as chlorine.

Disinfection (n.) The act of disinfecting; purification from infecting matter.

Disinfector (n.) One who, or that which, disinfects; an apparatus for applying disinfectants.

Disinflame (v. t.) To divest of flame or ardor.

Disingenuity (n.) Disingenuousness.

Disingenuous (a.) Not noble; unbecoming true honor or dignity; mean; unworthy; as, disingenuous conduct or schemes.

Disingenuous (a.) Not ingenuous; wanting in noble candor or frankness; not frank or open; uncandid; unworthily or meanly artful.

Disinhabited (a.) Uninhabited.

Disinherison (v. t.) Same as Disherison.

Disinherited (imp. & p. p.) of Disinherit

Disinheriting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinherit

Disinherit (v. t.) To cut off from an inheritance or from hereditary succession; to prevent, as an heir, from coming into possession of any property or right, which, by law or custom, would devolve on him in the course of descent.

Disinherit (v. t.) To deprive of heritage; to dispossess.

Disinheritance (n.) The act of disinheriting, or the condition of being; disinherited; disherison.

Disinhume (v. t.) To disinter.

Disinsure (v. t.) To render insecure; to put in danger.

Disintegrable (a.) Capable of being disintegrated, or reduced to fragments or powder.

Disintegrated (imp. & p. p.) of Disintegrate

Disintegrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disintegrate

Disintegrate (v. t.) To separate into integrant parts; to reduce to fragments or to powder; to break up, or cause to fall to pieces, as a rock, by blows of a hammer, frost, rain, and other mechanical or atmospheric influences.

Disintegrate (v. i.) To decompose into integrant parts; as, chalk rapidly disintegrates.

Disintegration (n.) The process by which anything is disintegrated; the condition of anything which is disintegrated.

Disintegration (n.) The wearing away or falling to pieces of rocks or strata, produced by atmospheric action, frost, ice, etc.

Disintegrator (n.) A machine for grinding or pulverizing by percussion.

Disinterred (imp. & p. p.) of Disinter

Disinterring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinter

Disinter (v. t.) To take out of the grave or tomb; to unbury; to exhume; to dig up.

Disinter (v. t.) To bring out, as from a grave or hiding place; to bring from obscurity into view.

Disinteress (v. t.) To deprive or rid of interest in, or regard for; to disengage.

Disinteressment (n.) Disinterestedness; impartiality; fairness.

Disinterest (p. a.) Disinterested.

Disinterest (n.) What is contrary to interest or advantage; disadvantage.

Disinterest (n.) Indifference to profit; want of regard to private advantage; disinterestedness.

Disinterest (v. t.) To divest of interest or interested motives.

Disinterested (a.) Not influenced by regard to personal interest or advantage; free from selfish motive; having no relation of interest or feeling; not biased or prejudiced; as, a disinterested decision or judge.

Disinterestedly (adv.) In a disinterested manner; without bias or prejudice.

Disinterestedness (n.) The state or quality of being disinterested; impartiality.

Disinteresting (a.) Uninteresting.

Disinterment (n.) The act of disinterring, or taking out of the earth; exhumation.

Disinthralled (imp. & p. p.) of Disinthrall

Disinthralling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinthrall

Disinthrall (v. t.) To free from thralldom; to disenthrall.

Disinthrallment (n.) A releasing from thralldom or slavery; disenthrallment.

Disintricate (v. t.) To disentangle.

Disinured (imp. & p. p.) of Disinure

Disinuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinure

Disinure (v. t.) To render unaccustomed or unfamiliar.

Disinvestiture (n.) The act of depriving of investiture.

Disinvigorate (v. t.) To enervate; to weaken.

Disinvolve (v. t.) To uncover; to unfold or unroll; to disentangle.

Disjection (n.) Destruction; dispersion.

Disjoined (imp. & p. p.) of Disjoin

Disjoining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disjoin

Disjoin (v. t.) To part; to disunite; to separate; to sunder.

Disjoin (v. i.) To become separated; to part.

Disjoint (a.) Disjointed; unconnected; -- opposed to conjoint.

Disjoint (v. t.) Difficult situation; dilemma; strait.

Disjointed (imp. & p. p.) of Disjoint

Disjointing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disjoint

Disjoint (v. t.) To separate the joints of; to separate, as parts united by joints; to put out of joint; to force out of its socket; to dislocate; as, to disjoint limbs; to disjoint bones; to disjoint a fowl in carving.

Disjoint (v. t.) To separate at junctures or joints; to break where parts are united; to break in pieces; as, disjointed columns; to disjoint and edifice.

Disjoint (v. t.) To break the natural order and relations of; to make incoherent; as, a disjointed speech.

Disjoint (v. i.) To fall in pieces.

Disjointed (a.) Separated at the joints; disconnected; incoherent.

Disjointly (adv.) In a disjointed state.

Disjudication (n.) Judgment; discrimination. See Dijudication.

Disjunct (a.) Disjoined; separated.

Disjunct (a.) Having the head, thorax, and abdomen separated by a deep constriction.

Disjuncttion (n.) The act of disjoining; disunion; separation; a parting; as, the disjunction of soul and body.

Disjuncttion (n.) A disjunctive proposition.

Disjunctive (a.) Tending to disjoin; separating; disjoining.

Disjunctive (a.) Pertaining to disjunct tetrachords.

Disjunctive (n.) A disjunctive conjunction.

Disjunctive (n.) A disjunctive proposition.

Disjunctively (adv.) In a disjunctive manner; separately.

Disjuncture (n.) The act of disjoining, or state of being disjoined; separation.

Disk (n.) A discus; a quoit.

Disk (n.) A flat, circular plate; as, a disk of metal or paper.

Disk (n.) The circular figure of a celestial body, as seen projected of the heavens.

Disk (n.) A circular structure either in plants or animals; as, a blood disk; germinal disk, etc.

Disk (n.) The whole surface of a leaf.

Disk (n.) The central part of a radiate compound flower, as in sunflower.

Disk (n.) A part of the receptacle enlarged or expanded under, or around, or even on top of, the pistil.

Disk (n.) The anterior surface or oral area of coelenterate animals, as of sea anemones.

Disk (n.) The lower side of the body of some invertebrates, especially when used for locomotion, when it is often called a creeping disk.

Disk (n.) In owls, the space around the eyes.

Diskindness (n.) Unkindness; disservice.

Diskless (a.) Having no disk; appearing as a point and not expanded into a disk, as the image of a faint star in a telescope.

Dislade (v. t.) To unlade.

Disleal (a.) Disloyal; perfidious.

Disleave (v. t.) To deprive of leaves.

Disliked (imp. & p. p.) of Dislike

Disliking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dislike

Dislike (v. t.) To regard with dislike or aversion; to disapprove; to disrelish.

Dislike (v. t.) To awaken dislike in; to displease.

Dislike (n.) A feeling of positive and usually permanent aversion to something unpleasant, uncongenial, or offensive; disapprobation; repugnance; displeasure; disfavor; -- the opposite of liking or fondness.

Dislike (n.) Discord; dissension.

Dislikeful (a.) Full of dislike; disaffected; malign; disagreeable.

Dislikelihood (n.) The want of likelihood; improbability.

Disliken (v. t.) To make unlike; to disguise.

Dislikeness (n.) Unlikeness.

Disliker (n.) One who dislikes or disrelishes.

Dislimb (v. t.) To tear limb from limb; to dismember.

Dislimn (v. t.) To efface, as a picture.

Dislink (v. t.) To unlink; to disunite; to separate.

Dislive (v. t.) To deprive of life.

Dislocated (imp. & p. p.) of Dislocate

Dislocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dislocate

Dislocate (v. t.) To displace; to put out of its proper place. Especially, of a bone: To remove from its normal connections with a neighboring bone; to put out of joint; to move from its socket; to disjoint; as, to dislocate your bones.

Dislocate (a.) Dislocated.

Dislocation (n.) The act of displacing, or the state of being displaced.

Dislocation (n.) The displacement of parts of rocks or portions of strata from the situation which they originally occupied. Slips, faults, and the like, are dislocations.

Dislocation (n.) The act of dislocating, or putting out of joint; also, the condition of being thus displaced.

Dislodged (imp. & p. p.) of Dislodge

Dislodging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dislodge

Dislodge (v. t.) To drive from a lodge or place of rest; to remove from a place of quiet or repose; as, shells resting in the sea at a considerate depth are not dislodged by storms.

Dislodge (v. t.) To drive out from a place of hiding or defense; as, to dislodge a deer, or an enemy.

Dislodge (v. i.) To go from a place of rest.

Dislodge (n.) Dwelling apart; separation.

Dislodgment (n.) The act or process of dislodging, or the state of being dislodged.

Disloign (v. t.) To put at a distance; to remove.

Disloyal (a.) Not loyal; not true to a sovereign or lawful superior, or to the government under which one lives; false where allegiance is due; faithless; as, a subject disloyal to the king; a husband disloyal to his wife.

Disloyally (adv.) In a disloyal manner.

Disloyalty (n.) Want of loyalty; lack of fidelity; violation of allegiance.

Dismail (v. t.) To divest of coat of mail.

Dismal (a.) Fatal; ill-omened; unlucky.

Dismal (a.) Gloomy to the eye or ear; sorrowful and depressing to the feelings; foreboding; cheerless; dull; dreary; as, a dismal outlook; dismal stories; a dismal place.

Dismally (adv.) In a dismal manner; gloomily; sorrowfully; uncomfortably.

Dismalness (n.) The quality of being dismal; gloominess.

Disman (v. t.) To unman.

Dismantled (imp. & p. p.) of Dismantle

Dismantling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismantle

Dismantle (v. t.) To strip or deprive of dress; to divest.

Dismantle (v. t.) To strip of furniture and equipments, guns, etc.; to unrig; to strip of walls or outworks; to break down; as, to dismantle a fort, a town, or a ship.

Dismantle (v. t.) To disable; to render useless.

Dismarch (v. i.) To march away.

Dismarry (v. t.) To free from the bonds of marriage; to divorce.

Dismarshal (v. t.) To disarrange; to derange; to put in disorder.

Dismask (v. t.) To divest of a mask.

Dismasted (imp. & p. p.) of Dismast

Dismasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismast

Dismast (v. t.) To deprive of a mast of masts; to break and carry away the masts from; as, a storm dismasted the ship.

Dismastment (n.) The act of dismasting; the state of being dismasted.

Dismaw (v. t.) To eject from the maw; to disgorge.

Dismayed (imp. & p. p.) of Dismay

Dismaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismay

Dismay (v. i.) To disable with alarm or apprehensions; to depress the spirits or courage of; to deprive or firmness and energy through fear; to daunt; to appall; to terrify.

Dismay (v. i.) To render lifeless; to subdue; to disquiet.

Dismay (v. i.) To take dismay or fright; to be filled with dismay.

Dismay (v. t.) Loss of courage and firmness through fear; overwhelming and disabling terror; a sinking of the spirits; consternation.

Dismay (v. t.) Condition fitted to dismay; ruin.

Dismayedness (n.) A state of being dismayed; dejection of courage; dispiritedness.

Dismayful (a.) Terrifying.

Disme (n.) A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe.

Dismembered (imp. & p. p.) of Dismember

Dismembering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismember

Dismember (v. t.) To tear limb from limb; to dilacerate; to disjoin member from member; to tear or cut in pieces; to break up.

Dismember (v. t.) To deprive of membership.

Dismemberment (n.) The act of dismembering, or the state of being dismembered; cutting in piece; m/tilation; division; separation.

Dismettled (a.) Destitute of mettle, that is, or fire or spirit.

Dismissed (imp. & p. p.) of Dismiss

Dismissing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismiss

Dismiss (v. t.) To send away; to give leave of departure; to cause or permit to go; to put away.

Dismiss (v. t.) To discard; to remove or discharge from office, service, or employment; as, the king dismisses his ministers; the matter dismisses his servant.

Dismiss (v. t.) To lay aside or reject as unworthy of attentions or regard, as a petition or motion in court.

Dismiss (n.) Dismission.

Dismissal (n.) Dismission; discharge.

Dismission (n.) The act dismissing or sending away; permission to leave; leave to depart; dismissal; as, the dismission of the grand jury.

Dismission (n.) Removal from office or employment; discharge, either with honor or with disgrace.

Dismission (n.) Rejection; a setting aside as trivial, invalid, or unworthy of consideration.

Dismissive (a.) Giving dismission.

Dismortaged (imp. & p. p.) of Dismortgage

Dismortgaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismortgage

Dismortgage (v. t.) To redeem from mortgage.

Dismounted (imp. & p. p.) of Dismount

Dismounting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismount

Dismount (v. i.) To come down; to descend.

Dismount (v. i.) To alight from a horse; to descend or get off, as a rider from his beast; as, the troops dismounted.

Dismount (v. t.) To throw or bring down from an elevation, place of honor and authority, or the like.

Dismount (v. t.) To throw or remove from a horse; to unhorse; as, the soldier dismounted his adversary.

Dismount (v. t.) To take down, or apart, as a machine.

Dismount (v. t.) To throw or remove from the carriage, or from that on which a thing is mounted; to break the carriage or wheels of, and render useless; to deprive of equipments or mountings; -- said esp. of artillery.

Disnaturalize (v. t.) To make alien; to deprive of the privileges of birth.

Disnatured (a.) Deprived or destitute of natural feelings; unnatural.

Disobedience (n.) Neglect or refusal to obey; violation of a command or prohibition.

Disobediency (n.) Disobedience.

Disobedient (a.) Neglecting or refusing to obey; omitting to do what is commanded, or doing what is prohibited; refractory; not observant of duty or rules prescribed by authority; -- applied to persons and acts.

Disobedient (a.) Not yielding.

Disobediently (adv.) In a disobedient manner.

Disobeisance (n.) Disobedience.

Disobeisant (a.) Disobedient.

Disobeyed (imp. & p. p.) of Disobey

Disobeying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disobey

Disobey (v. t.) Not to obey; to neglect or refuse to obey (a superior or his commands, the laws, etc.); to transgress the commands of (one in authority); to violate, as an order; as, refractory children disobey their parents; men disobey their Maker and the laws.

Disobey (v. i.) To refuse or neglect to obey; to violate commands; to be disobedient.

Disobeyer (n.) One who disobeys.

Disobligation (n.) The act of disobliging.

Disobligation (n.) A disobliging act; an offense.

Disobligation (n.) Release from obligation.

Disobligatory (a.) Releasing from obligation.

Disobliged (imp. & p. p.) of Disoblige

Disobliging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disoblige

Disoblige (v. t.) To do an act which contravenes the will or desires of; to offend by an act of unkindness or incivility; to displease; to refrain from obliging; to be unaccommodating to.

Disoblige (v. t.) To release from obligation.

Disobligement (n.) Release from obligation.

Disobliger (n.) One who disobliges.

Disobliging (a.) Not obliging; not disposed to do a favor; unaccommodating; as, a disobliging person or act.

Disobliging (a.) Displeasing; offensive.

Disoccident (v. t.) To turn away from the west; to throw out of reckoning as to longitude.

Disoccupation (n.) The state of being unemployed; want of occupation.

Disopinion (n.) Want or difference of belief; disbelief.

Disoppilate (v. t.) To open.

Disorb (v. t.) To throw out of the proper orbit; to unsphere.

Disord (n.) Disorder.

Disordeined (a.) Inordinate; irregular; vicious.

Disorder (n.) Want of order or regular disposition; lack of arrangement; confusion; disarray; as, the troops were thrown into disorder; the papers are in disorder.

Disorder (n.) Neglect of order or system; irregularity.

Disorder (n.) Breach of public order; disturbance of the peace of society; tumult.

Disorder (n.) Disturbance of the functions of the animal economy of the soul; sickness; derangement.

Disordered (imp. & p. p.) of Disorder

Disordering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disorder

Disorder (v. t.) To disturb the order of; to derange or disarrange; to throw into confusion; to confuse.

Disorder (v. t.) To disturb or interrupt the regular and natural functions of (either body or mind); to produce sickness or indisposition in; to discompose; to derange; as, to disorder the head or stomach.

Disorder (v. t.) To depose from holy orders.

Disordered (a.) Thrown into disorder; deranged; as, a disordered house, judgment.

Disordered (a.) Disorderly.

Disorderliness (n.) The state of being disorderly.

Disorderly (a.) Not in order; marked by disorder; disarranged; immethodical; as, the books and papers are in a disorderly state.

Disorderly (a.) Not acting in an orderly way, as the functions of the body or mind.

Disorderly (a.) Not complying with the restraints of order and law; tumultuous; unruly; lawless; turbulent; as, disorderly people; disorderly assemblies.

Disorderly (a.) Offensive to good morals and public decency; notoriously offensive; as, a disorderly house.

Disorderly (adv.) In a disorderly manner; without law or order; irregularly; confusedly.

Disordinance (n.) Disarrangement; disturbance.

Disordinate (a.) Inordinate; disorderly.

Disordinately (adv.) Inordinately.

Disordination (n.) The state of being in disorder; derangement; confusion.

Disorganization (v. t.) The act of disorganizing; destruction of system.

Disorganization (v. t.) The state of being disorganized; as, the disorganization of the body, or of government.

Disorganized (imp. & p. p.) of Disorganize

Disorganizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disorganize

Disorganize (v. t.) To destroy the organic structure or regular system of (a government, a society, a party, etc.); to break up (what is organized); to throw into utter disorder; to disarrange.

Disorganizer (n.) One who disorganizes or causes disorder and confusion.

Disorient (v. t.) To turn away from the cast; to confuse as to which way is east; to cause to lose one's bearings.

Disorientate (v. t.) To turn away from the east, or (figuratively) from the right or the truth.

Disowned (imp. & p. p.) of Disown

Disowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disown

Disown (v. t.) To refuse to own or acknowledge as belonging to one's self; to disavow or deny, as connected with one's self personally; as, a parent can hardly disown his child; an author will sometimes disown his writings.

Disown (v. t.) To refuse to acknowledge or allow; to deny.

Disownment (n.) Act of disowning.

Disoxidate (v. t.) To deoxidate; to deoxidize.

Disoxidation (n.) Deoxidation.

Disoxygenate (v. t.) To deprive of oxygen; to deoxidize.

Disoxygenation (n.) Deoxidation.

Dispace (v. i.) To roam.

Dispair (v. t.) To separate (a pair).

Dispand (v. t.) To spread out; to expand.

Dispansion (n.) Act of dispanding, or state of being dispanded.

Disparadised (a.) Removed from paradise.

Disparaged (imp. & p. p.) of Disparage

Disparaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disparage

Disparage (v. t.) To match unequally; to degrade or dishonor by an unequal marriage.

Disparage (v. t.) To dishonor by a comparison with what is inferior; to lower in rank or estimation by actions or words; to speak slightingly of; to depreciate; to undervalue.

Disparage (n.) Inequality in marriage; marriage with an inferior.

Disparagement (n.) Matching any one in marriage under his or her degree; injurious union with something of inferior excellence; a lowering in rank or estimation.

Disparagement (n.) Injurious comparison with an inferior; a depreciating or dishonoring opinion or insinuation; diminution of value; dishonor; indignity; reproach; disgrace; detraction; -- commonly with to.

Disparager (n.) One who disparages or dishonors; one who vilifies or disgraces.

Disparagingly (adv.) In a manner to disparage or dishonor; slightingly.

Disparate (a.) Unequal; dissimilar; separate.

Disparate (a.) Pertaining to two coordinate species or divisions.

Disparates (n. pl.) Things so unequal or unlike that they can not be compared with each other.

Disparition (n.) Act of disappearing; disappearance.

Disparities (pl. ) of Disparity

Disparity (n.) Inequality; difference in age, rank, condition, or excellence; dissimilitude; -- followed by between, in, of, as to, etc.; as, disparity in, or of, years; a disparity as to color.

Dispark (v. t.) To throw (a park or inclosure); to treat (a private park) as a common.

Dispark (v. t.) To set at large; to release from inclosure.

Disparkle (v. t.) To scatter abroad.

Disparted (imp. & p. p.) of Dispart

Disparting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispart

Dispart (v. t.) To part asunder; to divide; to separate; to sever; to rend; to rive or split; as, disparted air; disparted towers.

Dispart (v. i.) To separate, to open; to cleave.

Dispart (n.) The difference between the thickness of the metal at the mouth and at the breech of a piece of ordnance.

Dispart (n.) A piece of metal placed on the muzzle, or near the trunnions, on the top of a piece of ordnance, to make the line of sight parallel to the axis of the bore; -- called also dispart sight, and muzzle sight.

Dispart (v. t.) To make allowance for the dispart in (a gun), when taking aim.

Dispart (v. t.) To furnish with a dispart sight.

Dispassion (n.) Freedom from passion; an undisturbed state; apathy.

Dispassionate (a.) Free from passion; not warped, prejudiced, swerved, or carried away by passion or feeling; judicial; calm; composed.

Dispassionate (a.) Not dictated by passion; not proceeding from temper or bias; impartial; as, dispassionate proceedings; a dispassionate view.

Dispassioned (a.) Free from passion; dispassionate.

Dispatched (imp. & p. p.) of Dispatch

Dispatching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispatch

Dispatch (v. t.) To dispose of speedily, as business; to execute quickly; to make a speedy end of; to finish; to perform.

Dispatch (v. t.) To rid; to free.

Dispatch (v. t.) To get rid of by sending off; to send away hastily.

Dispatch (v. t.) To send off or away; -- particularly applied to sending off messengers, messages, letters, etc., on special business, and implying haste.

Dispatch (v. t.) To send out of the world; to put to death.

Dispatch (v. i.) To make haste; to conclude an affair; to finish a matter of business.

Dispatch (v. t.) The act of sending a message or messenger in haste or on important business.

Dispatch (v. t.) Any sending away; dismissal; riddance.

Dispatch (v. t.) The finishing up of a business; speedy performance, as of business; prompt execution; diligence; haste.

Dispatch (v. t.) A message dispatched or sent with speed; especially, an important official letter sent from one public officer to another; -- often used in the plural; as, a messenger has arrived with dispatches for the American minister; naval or military dispatches.

Dispatch (v. t.) A message transmitted by telegraph.

Dispatcher (n.) One who dispatches.

Dispatchful (a.) Bent on haste; intent on speedy execution of business or any task; indicating haste; quick; as, dispatchful looks.

Dispatchment (n.) The act of dispatching.

Dispathies (pl. ) of Dispathy

Dispathy (n.) Lack of sympathy; want of passion; apathy.

Dispauper (v. t.) To deprive of the claim of a pauper to public support; to deprive of the privilege of suing in forma pauperis.

Dispauperize (v. t.) To free a state of pauperism, or from paupers.

Dispeed (v. t.) To send off with speed; to dispatch.

Dispelled (imp. & p. p.) of Dispel

Dispelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispel

Dispel (v. t.) To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clear away; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares, doubts, illusions.

Dispence (v. i. & n.) See Dispense.

Dispend (v. t.) To spend; to lay out; to expend.

Dispender (n.) One who dispends or expends; a steward.

Dispensable (a.) Capable of being dispensed or administered.

Dispensable (a.) Capable of being dispensed with.

Dispensableness (n.) Quality of being dispensable.

Dispensaries (pl. ) of Dispensary

Dispensary (n.) A place where medicines are prepared and dispensed; esp., a place where the poor can obtain medical advice and medicines gratuitously or at a nominal price.

Dispensary (n.) A dispensatory.

Dispensation (n.) The act of dispensing or dealing out; distribution; often used of the distribution of good and evil by God to man, or more generically, of the acts and modes of his administration.

Dispensation (n.) That which is dispensed, dealt out, or appointed; that which is enjoined or bestowed

Dispensation (n.) A system of principles, promises, and rules ordained and administered; scheme; economy; as, the Patriarchal, Mosaic, and Christian dispensations.

Dispensation (n.) The relaxation of a law in a particular case; permission to do something forbidden, or to omit doing something enjoined; specifically, in the Roman Catholic Church, exemption from some ecclesiastical law or obligation to God which a man has incurred of his own free will (oaths, vows, etc.).

Dispensative (a.) Granting dispensation.

Dispensatively (adv.) By dispensation.

Dispensator (n.) A distributer; a dispenser.

Dispensatorily (adv.) In the way of dispensation; dispensatively.

Dispensatory (v. t.) Granting, or authorized to grant, dispensations.

Dispensatories (pl. ) of Dispensatory

Dispensatory (n.) A book or medicinal formulary containing a systematic description of drugs, and of preparations made from them. It is usually, but not always, distinguished from a pharmacop/ia in that it issued by private parties, and not by an official body or by government.

Dispensed (imp. & p. p.) of Dispense

Dispensing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispense

Dispense (v. t.) To deal out in portions; to distribute; to give; as, the steward dispenses provisions according directions; Nature dispenses her bounties; to dispense medicines.

Dispense (v. t.) To apply, as laws to particular cases; to administer; to execute; to manage; to direct.

Dispense (v. t.) To pay for; to atone for.

Dispense (v. t.) To exempt; to excuse; to absolve; -- with from.

Dispense (v. i.) To compensate; to make up; to make amends.

Dispense (v. i.) To give dispensation.

Dispense (v. t.) Dispensation; exemption.

Dispense (n.) Expense; profusion; outlay.

Dispenser (n.) One who, or that which, dispenses; a distributer; as, a dispenser of favors.

Dispeopled (imp. & p. p.) of Dispeople

Dispeopling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispeople

Dispeople (v. t.) To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate.

Dispeopler (n.) One who, or that which, dispeoples; a depopulator.

Disperge (v. t.) To sprinkle.

Disspermous (a.) Containing only two seeds; two-seeded.

Disperple (v. t.) To scatter; to sprinkle.

Dispersal (n.) The act or result of dispersing or scattering; dispersion.

Dispersed (imp. & p. p.) of Disperse

Dispersing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disperse

Disperse (v. t.) To scatter abroad; to drive to different parts; to distribute; to diffuse; to spread; as, the Jews are dispersed among all nations.

Disperse (v. t.) To scatter, so as to cause to vanish; to dissipate; as, to disperse vapors.

Disperse (v. i.) To separate; to go or move into different parts; to vanish; as, the company dispersed at ten o'clock; the clouds disperse.

Disperse (v. i.) To distribute wealth; to share one's abundance with others.

Dispersed (a.) Scattered.

Disperseness (n.) Dispersedness.

Disperser (n.) One that disperses.

Dispersion (n.) The act or process of scattering or dispersing, or the state of being scattered or separated; as, the Jews in their dispersion retained their rites and ceremonies; a great dispersion of the human family took place at the building of Babel.

Dispersion (n.) The separation of light into its different colored rays, arising from their different refrangibilities.

Dispersive (a.) Tending to disperse.

Disperson'ate (v. t.) To deprive of personality or individuality.

Dispirited (imp. & p. p.) of Dispirit

Dispiriting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispirit

Dispirit (v. t.) To deprive of cheerful spirits; to depress the spirits of; to dishearten; to discourage.

Dispirit (v. t.) To distill or infuse the spirit of.

Dispirited (a.) Depressed in spirits; disheartened; daunted.

Dispiritment (n.) Depression of spirits; discouragement.

Dispiteous (a.) Full of despite; cruel; spiteful; pitiless.

Displaced (imp. & p. p.) of Displace

Displacing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displace

Displace (v. t.) To change the place of; to remove from the usual or proper place; to put out of place; to place in another situation; as, the books in the library are all displaced.

Displace (v. t.) To crowd out; to take the place of.

Displace (v. t.) To remove from a state, office, dignity, or employment; to discharge; to depose; as, to displace an officer of the revenue.

Displace (v. t.) To dislodge; to drive away; to banish.

Displaceable (a.) Capable of being displaced.

Displacement (n.) The act of displacing, or the state of being displaced; a putting out of place.

Displacement (n.) The quantity of anything, as water, displaced by a floating body, as by a ship, the weight of the displaced liquid being equal to that of the displacing body.

Displacement (n.) The process of extracting soluble substances from organic material and the like, whereby a quantity of saturated solvent is displaced, or removed, for another quantity of the solvent.

Displacency (n.) Want of complacency or gratification; envious displeasure; dislike.

Displacer (n.) One that displaces.

Displacer (n.) The funnel part of the apparatus for solution by displacement.

Di/planted (imp. & p. p.) of Displant

Displanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displant

Displant (v. t.) To remove (what is planted or fixed); to unsettle and take away; to displace; to root out; as, to displant inhabitants.

Displant (v. t.) To strip of what is planted or settled; as, to displant a country of inhabitants.

Displantation (n.) The act of displanting; removal; displacement.

Displat (v. t.) To untwist; to uncurl; to unplat.

Displayed (imp. & p. p.) of Display

Displaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Display

Display (v. t.) To unfold; to spread wide; to expand; to stretch out; to spread.

Display (v. t.) To extend the front of (a column), bringing it into line.

Display (v. t.) To spread before the view; to show; to exhibit to the sight, or to the mind; to make manifest.

Display (v. t.) To make an exhibition of; to set in view conspicuously or ostentatiously; to exhibit for the sake of publicity; to parade.

Display (v. t.) To make conspicuous by large or prominent type.

Display (v. t.) To discover; to descry.

Display (v. i.) To make a display; to act as one making a show or demonstration.

Display (n.) An opening or unfolding; exhibition; manifestation.

Display (n.) Ostentatious show; exhibition for effect; parade.

Displayed (a.) Unfolded; expanded; exhibited conspicuously or ostentatiously.

Displayed (a.) With wings expanded; -- said of a bird of pray, esp. an eagle.

Displayed (a.) Set with lines of prominent type interspersed, to catch the eye.

Displayer (n.) One who, or that which, displays.

Disple (v. t.) To discipline; to correct.

Displeasance (n.) Displeasure; discontent; annoyance.

Displeasant (a.) Unpleasing; offensive; unpleasant.

Displeased (imp. & p. p.) of Displease

Displeasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displease

Displease (v. t.) To make not pleased; to excite a feeling of disapprobation or dislike in; to be disagreeable to; to offend; to vex; -- often followed by with or at. It usually expresses less than to anger, vex, irritate, or provoke.

Displease (v. t.) To fail to satisfy; to miss of.

Displease (v. i.) To give displeasure or offense.

Displeasedly (adv.) With displeasure.

Displeasedness (n.) Displeasure.

Displeaser (n.) One who displeases.

Displeasing (a.) Causing displeasure or dissatisfaction; offensive; disagreeable.

Displeasure (n.) The feeling of one who is displeased; irritation or uneasiness of the mind, occasioned by anything that counteracts desire or command, or which opposes justice or a sense of propriety; disapprobation; dislike; dissatisfaction; disfavor; indignation.

Displeasure (n.) That which displeases; cause of irritation or annoyance; offense; injury.

Displeasure (n.) State of disgrace or disfavor; disfavor.

Displeasure (v. t.) To displease.

Displenish (v. t.) To deprive or strip, as a house of furniture, or a barn of stock.

Displicence (n.) Alt. of Displicency

Displicency (n.) Dislike; dissatisfaction; discontent.

Disploded (imp. & p. p.) of Displode

Disploding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displode

Displode (v. t.) To discharge; to explode.

Displode (v. i.) To burst with a loud report; to explode.

Displosion (n.) Explosion.

Displosive (a.) Explosive.

Displumed (imp. & p. p.) of Displume

Displuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displume

Displume (v. t.) To strip of, or as of, a plume, or plumes; to deprive of decoration; to dishonor; to degrade.

Dispoline (n.) One of several isomeric organic bases of the quinoline series of alkaloids.

Dispond (n.) See Despond.

Dispondee (n.) A double spondee; a foot consisting of four long syllables.

Dispone (v. t.) To dispose.

Dispone (v. t.) To dispose of.

Dispone (v. t.) To make over, or convey, legally.

Disponee (n.) The person to whom any property is legally conveyed.

Disponer (n.) One who legally transfers property from himself to another.

Disponge (v. t.) To sprinkle, as with water from a sponge.

Dispope (v. t.) To refuse to consider as pope; to depose from the popedom.

Disporous (a.) Having two spores.

Disport (v. i.) Play; sport; pastime; diversion; playfulness.

Disported (imp. & p. p.) of Disport

Disporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disport

Disport (v. i.) To play; to wanton; to move in gayety; to move lightly and without restraint; to amuse one's self.

Disport (v. i.) To divert or amuse; to make merry.

Disport (v. i.) To remove from a port; to carry away.

Disportment (n.) Act of disporting; diversion; play.

Disposable (a.) Subject to disposal; free to be used or employed as occasion may require; not assigned to any service or use.

Disposal (n.) The act of disposing, or disposing of, anything; arrangement; orderly distribution; a putting in order; as, the disposal of the troops in two lines.

Disposal (n.) Ordering; regulation; adjustment; management; government; direction.

Disposal (n.) Regulation of the fate, condition, application, etc., of anything; the transference of anything into new hands, a new place, condition, etc.; alienation, or parting; as, a disposal of property.

Disposal (n.) Power or authority to dispose of, determine the condition of, control, etc., especially in the phrase at, or in, the disposal of.

Disposed (imp. & p. p.) of Dispose

Disposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispose

Dispose (v. t.) To distribute and put in place; to arrange; to set in order; as, to dispose the ships in the form of a crescent.

Dispose (v. t.) To regulate; to adjust; to settle; to determine.

Dispose (v. t.) To deal out; to assign to a use; to bestow for an object or purpose; to apply; to employ; to dispose of.

Dispose (v. t.) To give a tendency or inclination to; to adapt; to cause to turn; especially, to incline the mind of; to give a bent or propension to; to incline; to make inclined; -- usually followed by to, sometimes by for before the indirect object.

Dispose (v. t.) To exercise finally one's power of control over; to pass over into the control of some one else, as by selling; to alienate; to part with; to relinquish; to get rid of; as, to dispose of a house; to dispose of one's time.

Dispose (v. i.) To bargain; to make terms.

Dispose (n.) Disposal; ordering; management; power or right of control.

Dispose (n.) Cast of mind; disposition; inclination; behavior; demeanor.

Disposed (p. a.) Inclined; minded.

Disposed (p. a.) Inclined to mirth; jolly.

Disposedness (n.) The state of being disposed or inclined; inclination; propensity.

Disposement (n.) Disposal.

Disposer (n.) One who, or that which, disposes; a regulator; a director; a bestower.

Disposingly (adv.) In a manner to dispose.

Disposited (a.) Disposed.

Disposition (n.) The act of disposing, arranging, ordering, regulating, or transferring; application; disposal; as, the disposition of a man's property by will.

Disposition (n.) The state or the manner of being disposed or arranged; distribution; arrangement; order; as, the disposition of the trees in an orchard; the disposition of the several parts of an edifice.

Disposition (n.) Tendency to any action or state resulting from natural constitution; nature; quality; as, a disposition in plants to grow in a direction upward; a disposition in bodies to putrefaction.

Disposition (n.) Conscious inclination; propension or propensity.

Disposition (n.) Natural or prevailing spirit, or temperament of mind, especially as shown in intercourse with one's fellow-men; temper of mind.

Disposition (n.) Mood; humor.

Dispositional (a.) Pertaining to disposition.

Dispositioned (a.) Having (such) a disposition; -- used in compounds; as, well-dispositioned.

Dispositive (a.) Disposing; tending to regulate; decretive.

Dispositive (a.) Belonging to disposition or natural, tendency.

Dispositively (adv.) In a dispositive manner; by natural or moral disposition.

Dispositor (n.) A disposer.

Dispositor (n.) The planet which is lord of the sign where another planet is.

Dispossessed (imp. & p. p.) of Dispossess

Dispossessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispossess

Dispossess (v. t.) To put out of possession; to deprive of the actual occupancy of, particularly of land or real estate; to disseize; to eject; -- usually followed by of before the thing taken away; as, to dispossess a king of his crown.

Dispossession (n.) The act of putting out of possession; the state of being dispossessed.

Dispossession (n.) The putting out of possession, wrongfully or otherwise, of one who is in possession of a freehold, no matter in what title; -- called also ouster.

Dispossessor (n.) One who dispossesses.

Dispost (v. t.) To eject from a post; to displace.

Disposure (n.) The act of disposing; power to dispose of; disposal; direction.

Disposure (n.) Disposition; arrangement; position; posture.

Dispraisable (a.) Blamable.

Dispraised (imp. & p. p.) of Dispraise

Dispraising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispraise

Dispraise (v. t.) To withdraw praise from; to notice with disapprobation or some degree of censure; to disparage; to blame.

Dispraise (v. t.) The act of dispraising; detraction; blame censure; reproach; disparagement.

Dispraiser (n.) One who blames or dispraises.

Dispraisingly (adv.) By way of dispraise.

Dispread (v. t.) To spread abroad, or different ways; to spread apart; to open; as, the sun dispreads his beams.

Dispread (v. i.) To extend or expand itself.

Dispreader (n.) One who spreads abroad.

Disprejudice (v. t.) To free from prejudice.

Disprepare (v. t.) To render unprepared.

Disprince (v. t.) To make unlike a prince.

Disprison (v. t.) To let loose from prison, to set at liberty.

Disprivilege (v. t.) To deprive of a privilege or privileges.

Disprize (v. t.) To depreciate.

Disprofess (v. t.) To renounce the profession or pursuit of.

Disprofit (n.) Loss; damage.

Disprofit (v. i. & i.) To be, or to cause to be, without profit or benefit.

Disprofitable (a.) Unprofitable.

Disproof (n.) A proving to be false or erroneous; confutation; refutation; as, to offer evidence in disproof of a statement.

Disproperty (v. t.) To cause to be no longer property; to dispossess of.

Disproportion (n.) Want of proportion in form or quantity; lack of symmetry; as, the arm may be in disproportion to the body; the disproportion of the length of a building to its height.

Disproportion (n.) Want of suitableness, adequacy, or due proportion to an end or use; unsuitableness; disparity; as, the disproportion of strength or means to an object.

Disproportioned (imp. & p. p.) of Disproportion

Disproportioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disproportion

Disproportion (v. t.) To make unsuitable in quantity, form, or fitness to an end; to violate symmetry in; to mismatch; to join unfitly.

Disproportionable (a.) Disproportional; unsuitable in form, size, quantity, or adaptation; disproportionate; inadequate.

Disproportional (a.) Not having due proportion to something else; not having proportion or symmetry of parts; unsuitable in form, quantity or value; inadequate; unequal; as, a disproportional limb constitutes deformity in the body; the studies of youth should not be disproportional to their understanding.

Disproportionality (n.) The state of being disproportional.

Disproportionally (adv.) In a disproportional manner; unsuitably in form, quantity, or value; unequally.

Disproportionate (a.) Not proportioned; unsymmetrical; unsuitable to something else in bulk, form, value, or extent; out of proportion; inadequate; as, in a perfect body none of the limbs are disproportionate; it is wisdom not to undertake a work disproportionate means.

Dispropriate (v. t.) To cancel the appropriation of; to disappropriate.

Disprovable (a.) Capable of being disproved or refuted.

Disproval (n.) Act of disproving; disproof.

Disproved (imp. & p. p.) of Disprove

Disproving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disprove

Disprove (v. t.) To prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; to refute.

Disprove (v. t.) To disallow; to disapprove of.

Disprover (n.) One who disproves or confutes.

Disprovide (v. t.) Not to provide; to fail to provide.

Dispunct (a.) Wanting in punctilious respect; discourteous.

Dispunct (v. t.) To expunge.

Dispunge (v. t.) To expunge; to erase.

Dispunge (v. t.) See Disponge.

Dispunishable (a.) Without penal restraint; not punishable.

Dispurpose (v. t.) To dissuade; to frustrate; as, to dispurpose plots.

Dispurse (v. t.) To disburse.

Dispurvey (v. t.) To disfurnish; to strip.

Dispurveyance (n.) Want of provisions; /ack of food.

Disputable (v. i.) Capable of being disputed; liable to be called in question, controverted, or contested; or doubtful certainty or propriety; controvertible; as, disputable opinions, propositions, points, or questions.

Disputable (v. i.) Disputatious; contentious.

Disputableness (n.) State of being disputable.

Disputacity (v. i.) Proneness to dispute.

Disputant (v. i.) Disputing; engaged in controversy.

Disputant (n.) One who disputes; one who argues // opposition to another; one appointed to dispute; a controvertist; a reasoner in opposition.

Disputation (v. i.) The act of disputing; a reasoning or argumentation in opposition to something, or on opposite sides; controversy in words; verbal contest respecting the truth of some fact, opinion, proposition, or argument.

Disputation (v. i.) A rhetorical exercise in which parties reason in opposition to each other on some question proposed.

Disputatious (a.) Inclined to dispute; apt to civil or controvert; characterized by dispute; as, a disputatious person or temper.

Disputative (a.) Disposed to dispute; inclined to cavil or to reason in opposition; as, a disputative temper.

Disputed (imp. & p. p.) of Dispute

Disputing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispute

Dispute (v. i.) To contend in argument; to argue against something maintained, upheld, or claimed, by another; to discuss; to reason; to debate; to altercate; to wrangle.

Dispute (v. t.) To make a subject of disputation; to argue pro and con; to discuss.

Dispute (v. t.) To oppose by argument or assertion; to attempt to overthrow; to controvert; to express dissent or opposition to; to call in question; to deny the truth or validity of; as, to dispute assertions or arguments.

Dispute (v. t.) To strive or contend about; to contest.

Dispute (v. t.) To struggle against; to resist.

Dispute (v. i.) Verbal controversy; contest by opposing argument or expression of opposing views or claims; controversial discussion; altercation; debate.

Dispute (v. i.) Contest; struggle; quarrel.

Disputeless (a.) Admitting no dispute; incontrovertible.

Disputer (n.) One who disputes, or who is given to disputes; a controvertist.

Disputison (n.) Dispute; discussion.

Disqualification (n.) The act of disqualifying, or state of being disqualified; want of qualification; incompetency; disability; as, the disqualification of men for holding certain offices.

Disqualification (n.) That which disqualifies; that which incapacitates or makes unfit; as, conviction of crime is a disqualification of a person for office; sickness is a disqualification for labor.

Disqualified (imp. & p. p.) of Disqualify

Disqualifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disqualify

Disqualify (v. t.) To deprive of the qualities or properties necessary for any purpose; to render unfit; to incapacitate; -- with for or from before the purpose, state, or act.

Disqualify (v. t.) To deprive of some power, right, or privilege, by positive restriction; to disable; to debar legally; as, a conviction of perjury disqualifies a man to be a witness.

Disquantity (v. t.) To diminish the quantity of; to lessen.

Disquiet (a.) Deprived of quiet; impatient; restless; uneasy.

Disquiet (n.) Want of quiet; want of tranquility in body or mind; uneasiness; restlessness; disturbance; anxiety.

Disquieted (imp. & p. p.) of Disquiet

Disquieting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disquiet

Disquiet (v. t.) To render unquiet; to deprive of peace, rest, or tranquility; to make uneasy or restless; to disturb.

Disquietal (n.) The act of disquieting; a state of disquiet.

Disquieter (n.) One who, or that which, disquiets, or makes uneasy; a disturber.

Disquietful (a.) Producing inquietude or uneasiness.

Disquietive (a.) Tending to disquiet.

Disquietly (adv.) In a disquiet manner; uneasily; as, he rested disquietly that night.

Disquietment (n.) State of being disquieted; uneasiness; harassment.

Disquietness (n.) Disturbance of quiet in body or mind; restlessness; uneasiness.

Disquietous (a.) Causing uneasiness.

Disquiettude (n.) Want of peace or tranquility; uneasiness; disturbance; agitation; anxiety.

Disquisition (n.) A formal or systematic inquiry into, or discussion of, any subject; a full examination or investigation of a matter, with the arguments and facts bearing upon it; elaborate essay; dissertation.

Disquisitional (a.) Pertaining to disquisition; of the nature of disquisition.

Disquisitionary (a.) Pertaining to disquisition; disquisitional.

Disquisitive (a.) Relating to disquisition; fond discussion or investigation; examining; inquisitive.

Disquisitorial (a.) Disquisitory.

Disquisitory (a.) Of or pertaining to disquisition; disquisitive.

Disrange (v. t.) To disarrange.

Disrank (v. t.) To degrade from rank.

Disrank (v. t.) To throw out of rank or into confusion.

Disrate (v. t.) To reduce to a lower rating or rank; to degrade.

Disray (variant) of Disarray.

Disrealize (v. t.) To divest of reality; to make uncertain.

Disregarded (imp. & p. p.) of Disregard

Disregarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disregard

Disregard (v. t.) Not to regard; to pay no heed to; to omit to take notice of; to neglect to observe; to slight as unworthy of regard or notice; as, to disregard the admonitions of conscience.

Disregard (n.) The act of disregarding, or the state of being disregarded; intentional neglect; omission of notice; want of attention; slight.

Disregarder (n.) One who disregards.

Disregardful (a.) Neglect; negligent; heedless; regardless.

Disregardfully (adv.) Negligently; heedlessly.

Disrelish (n.) Want of relish; dislike (of the palate or of the mind); distaste; a slight degree of disgust; as, a disrelish for some kinds of food.

Disrelish (n.) Absence of relishing or palatable quality; bad taste; nauseousness.

Disrelished (imp. & p. p.) of Disrelish

Disrelishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disrelish

Disrelish (v. t.) Not to relish; to regard as unpalatable or offensive; to feel a degree of disgust at.

Disrelish (v. t.) To deprive of relish; to make nauseous or disgusting in a slight degree.

Disremember (v. t.) To fail to remember; to forget.

Disrepair (n.) A state of being in bad condition, and wanting repair.

Disreputability (n.) The state of being disreputable.

Disreputable (a.) Not reputable; of bad repute; not in esteem; dishonorable; disgracing the reputation; tending to bring into disesteem; as, it is disreputable to associate familiarly with the mean, the lewd, and the profane.

Disreputably (adv.) In a disreputable manner.

Disreputation (n.) Loss or want of reputation or good name; dishonor; disrepute; disesteem.

Disrepute (n.) Loss or want of reputation; ill character; disesteem; discredit.

Disrepute (v. t.) To bring into disreputation; to hold in dishonor.

Disrespect (n.) Want of respect or reverence; disesteem; incivility; discourtesy.

Disrespect (v. t.) To show disrespect to.

Disrespectability (n.) Want of respectability.

Disrespectable (a.) Not respectable; disreputable.

Disrespecter (n.) One who disrespects.

Disrespectful (a.) Wanting in respect; manifesting disesteem or lack of respect; uncivil; as, disrespectful behavior.

Disrespective (a.) Showing want of respect; disrespectful.

Disreverence (v. t.) To treat irreverently or with disrespect.

Disrobed (imp. & p. p.) of Disrobe

Disrobing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disrobe

Disrobe (v. t. & i.) To divest of a robe; to undress; figuratively, to strip of covering; to divest of that which clothes or decorates; as, autumn disrobes the fields of verdure.

Disrober (n.) One who, or that which, disrobes.

Disroof (v. t.) To unroof.

Disrooted (imp. & p. p.) of Disroot

Disrooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disroot

Disroot (v. t.) To tear up the roots of, or by the roots; hence, to tear from a foundation; to uproot.

Disrout (v. i.) To put to rout.

Disrudder (v. t.) To deprive of the rudder, as a ship.

Disrulily (adv.) In a disorderly manner.

Disruly (a.) Unruly; disorderly.

Disrupt (a.) Rent off; torn asunder; severed; disrupted.

Disrupted (imp. & p. p.) of Disrupt

Disrupting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disrupt

Disrupt (v. t.) To break asunder; to rend.

Disruption (n.) The act or rending asunder, or the state of being rent asunder or broken in pieces; breach; rent; dilaceration; rupture; as, the disruption of rocks in an earthquake; disruption of a state.

Disruptive (a.) Causing, or tending to cause, disruption; caused by disruption; breaking through; bursting; as, the disruptive discharge of an electrical battery.

Disrupture (n.) Disruption.

Dissatisfaction (n.) The state of being dissatisfied, unsatisfied, or discontented; uneasiness proceeding from the want of gratification, or from disappointed wishes and expectations.

Dissatisfactory (a.) Causing dissatisfaction; unable to give content; unsatisfactory; displeasing.

Dissatisfied (imp. & p. p.) of Dissatisfy

Dissatisfying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissatisfy

Dissatisfy (v. t.) To render unsatisfied or discontented; to excite uneasiness in by frustrating wishes or expectations; to displease by the want of something requisite; as, to be dissatisfied with one's fortune.

Disseat (v. t.) To unseat.

Dissected (imp. & p. p.) of Dissect

Dissecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissect

Dissect (v. t.) To divide into separate parts; to cut in pieces; to separate and expose the parts of, as an animal or a plant, for examination and to show their structure and relations; to anatomize.

Dissect (v. t.) To analyze, for the purposes of science or criticism; to divide and examine minutely.

Dissected (a.) Cut into several parts; divided into sections; as, a dissected map.

Dissected (a.) Cut deeply into many lobes or divisions; as, a dissected leaf.

Dissectible (a.) Capable of being dissected, or separated by dissection.

Dissecting (a.) Dividing or separating the parts of an animal or vegetable body; as, a dissecting aneurism, one which makes its way between or within the coats of an artery.

Dissecting (a.) Of or pertaining to, or received during, a dissection; as, a dissecting wound.

Dissecting (a.) Used for or in dissecting; as, a dissecting knife; a dissecting microscope.

Dissection (n.) The act of dissecting an animal or plant; as, dissection of the human body was held sacrilege till the time of Francis I.

Dissection (n.) Fig.: The act of separating or dividing for the purpose of critical examination.

Dissection (n.) Anything dissected; especially, some part, or the whole, of an animal or plant dissected so as to exhibit the structure; an anatomical so prepared.

Dissector (n.) One who dissects; an anatomist.

Disseized (imp. & p. p.) of Disseize

Disseizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disseize

Disseize (v. t.) To deprive of seizin or possession; to dispossess or oust wrongfully (one in freehold possession of land); -- followed by of; as, to disseize a tenant of his freehold.

Disseizee (n.) A person disseized, or put out of possession of an estate unlawfully; -- correlative to disseizor.

Disseizin (n.) The act of disseizing; an unlawful dispossessing and ouster of a person actually seized of the freehold.

Disseizor (n.) One who wrongfully disseizes, or puts another out of possession of a freehold.

Disseizoress (n.) A woman disseizes.

Disseizure (n.) Disseizin.

Dissemblance (n.) Want of resemblance; dissimilitude.

Dissemblance (n.) The act or art of dissembling; dissimulation.

Dissembled (imp. & p. p.) of Dissemble

Dissembling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissemble

Dissemble (v. t.) To hide under a false semblance or seeming; to feign (something) not to be what it really is; to put an untrue appearance upon; to disguise; to mask.

Dissemble (v. t.) To put on the semblance of; to make pretense of; to simulate; to feign.

Dissemble (v. i.) To conceal the real fact, motives, /tention, or sentiments, under some pretense; to assume a false appearance; to act the hypocrite.

Dissembler (n.) One who dissembles; one who conceals his opinions or dispositions under a false appearance; a hypocrite.

Dissembling (a.) That dissembles; hypocritical; false.

Disseminated (imp. & p. p.) of Disseminate

Disseminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disseminate

Disseminate (v. t. & i.) To sow broadcast or as seed; to scatter for growth and propagation, like seed; to spread abroad; to diffuse; as, principles, ideas, opinions, and errors are disseminated when they are spread abroad for propagation.

Disseminate (v. t. & i.) To spread or extend by dispersion.

Disseminated (p. a.) Occurring in small portions scattered through some other substance.

Dissemination (n.) The act of disseminating, or the state of being disseminated; diffusion for propagation and permanence; a scattering or spreading abroad, as of ideas, beliefs, etc.

Disseminative (a.) Tending to disseminate, or to become disseminated.

Disseminator (n.) One who, or that which, disseminates, spreads, or propagates; as, disseminators of disease.

Dissension (n.) Disagreement in opinion, usually of a violent character, producing warm debates or angry words; contention in words; partisan and contentious divisions; breach of friendship and union; strife; discord; quarrel.

Dissensious (a.) Disposed to discord; contentious; dissentious.

Dissented (imp. & p. p.) of Dissent

Dissenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissent

Dissent (v. i.) To differ in opinion; to be of unlike or contrary sentiment; to disagree; -- followed by from.

Dissent (v. i.) To differ from an established church in regard to doctrines, rites, or government.

Dissent (v. i.) To differ; to be of a contrary nature.

Dissent (n.) The act of dissenting; difference of opinion; refusal to adopt something proposed; nonagreement, nonconcurrence, or disagreement.

Dissent (n.) Separation from an established church, especially that of England; nonconformity.

Dissent (n.) Contrariety of nature; diversity in quality.

Dissentaneous (a.) Disagreeing; contrary; differing; -- opposed to consentaneous.

Dissentany (a.) Dissentaneous; inconsistent.

Dissentation (n.) Dissension.

Dissenter (n.) One who dissents; one who differs in opinion, or declares his disagreement.

Dissenter (n.) One who separates from the service and worship of an established church; especially, one who disputes the authority or tenets of the Church of England; a nonconformist.

Dissenterism (n.) The spirit or principles of dissenters.

Dissentiate (v. t.) To throw into a state of dissent.

Dissentient (v. i.) Disagreeing; declaring dissent; dissenting.

Dissentient (n.) One who dissents.

Dissentious (a.) Marked by dissensions; apt to breed discord; quarrelsome; contentious; factious.

Dissentive (a.) Disagreeing; inconsistent.

Dissepiment (n.) A separating tissue; a partition; a septum.

Dissepiment (n.) One of the partitions which divide a compound ovary into cells.

Dissepiment (n.) One of the transverse, calcareous partitions between the radiating septa of a coral.

Dissert (v. i.) To discourse or dispute; to discuss.

Dissertate (v. i.) To deal in dissertation; to write dissertations; to discourse.

Dissertation (n.) A formal or elaborate argumentative discourse, oral or written; a disquisition; an essay; a discussion; as, Dissertations on the Prophecies.

Dissertational (a.) Relating to dissertations; resembling a dissertation.

Dissertationist (n.) A writer of dissertations.

Dissertator (n.) One who writers a dissertation; one who discourses.

Dissertly (adv.) See Disertly.

Di///// (imp. & p. p.) of Disserve

Disserving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disserve

Disserve (v. t.) To fail to serve; to do injury or mischief to; to damage; to hurt; to harm.

Disservice (n.) Injury; mischief.

Disserviceable (a.) Calculated to do disservice or harm; not serviceable; injurious; harmful; unserviceable.

Dissettle (v. t.) To unsettle.

Dissettlement (n.) The act of unsettling, or the state of being unsettled.

Dissevered (imp. & p. p.) of Dissever

Dissevering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissever

Dissever (v. t.) To part in two; to sever thoroughly; to sunder; to disunite; to separate; to disperse.

Dissever (v. i.) To part; to separate.

Disseverance (n.) The act of disserving; separation.

Disseveration (n.) The act of disserving; disseverance.

Disseverment (n.) Disseverance.

Disshadow (v. t.) To free from shadow or shade.

Dissheathe (v. i.) To become unsheathed.

Disship (v. t.) To dismiss from service on board ship.

Disshiver (v. t. & i.) To shiver or break in pieces.

Dissidence (a.) Disagreement; dissent; separation from the established religion.

Dissident (a.) No agreeing; dissenting; discordant; different.

Dissident (n.) One who disagrees or dissents; one who separates from the established religion.

Dissidently (adv.) In a dissident manner.

Dissilience (n.) Alt. of Dissiliency

Dissiliency (n.) The act of leaping or starting asunder.

Dissilient (a.) Starting asunder; bursting and opening with an elastic force; dehiscing explosively; as, a dissilient pericarp.

Dissilition (n.) The act of bursting or springing apart.

Dissimilar (a.) Not similar; unlike; heterogeneous; as, the tempers of men are as dissimilar as their features.

Dissimilarity (n.) Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilitude; variety; as, the dissimilarity of human faces and forms.

Dissimilarly (adv.) In a dissimilar manner; in a varied style.

Dissimilate (v. t.) To render dissimilar.

Dissimilation (n.) The act of making dissimilar.

Dissimile (n.) Comparison or illustration by contraries.

Dissimilitude (n.) Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilarity.

Dissimilitude (n.) A comparison by contrast; a dissimile.

Dissimulate (a.) Feigning; simulating; pretending.

Dissimulate (v. i.) To dissemble; to feign; to pretend.

Dissimulation (n.) The act of dissembling; a hiding under a false appearance; concealment by feigning; false pretension; hypocrisy.

Dissimulator (n.) One who dissimulates; a dissembler.

Dissimule (v. t. & i.) To dissemble.

Dissimuler (n.) A dissembler.

Dissimulour (n.) A dissembler.

Dissipable (a.) Capable of being scattered or dissipated.

Dissipated (imp. & p. p.) of Dissipate

Dissipating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissipate

Dissipate (v. t.) To scatter completely; to disperse and cause to disappear; -- used esp. of the dispersion of things that can never again be collected or restored.

Dissipate (v. t.) To destroy by wasteful extravagance or lavish use; to squander.

Dissipate (v. i.) To separate into parts and disappear; to waste away; to scatter; to disperse; to vanish; as, a fog or cloud gradually dissipates before the rays or heat of the sun; the heat of a body dissipates.

Dissipate (v. i.) To be extravagant, wasteful, or dissolute in the pursuit of pleasure; to engage in dissipation.

Dissipated (a.) Squandered; scattered.

Dissipated (a.) Wasteful of health, money, etc., in the pursuit of pleasure; dissolute; intemperate.

Dissipation (n.) The act of dissipating or dispersing; a state of dispersion or separation; dispersion; waste.

Dissipation (n.) A dissolute course of life, in which health, money, etc., are squandered in pursuit of pleasure; profuseness in vicious indulgence, as late hours, riotous living, etc.; dissoluteness.

Dissipation (n.) A trifle which wastes time or distracts attention.

Dissipative (a.) Tending to dissipate.

Dissipativity (n.) The rate at which palpable energy is dissipated away into other forms of energy.

Dissite (a.) Lying apart.

Disslander (v. t.) To slander.

Disslander (n.) Slander.

Disslanderous (a.) Slanderous.

Dissociability (n.) Want of sociability; unsociableness.

Dissociable (a.) Not /ell associated or assorted; incongruous.

Dissociable (a.) Having a tendency to dissolve social connections; unsuitable to society; unsociable.

Dissocial (v. t.) Unfriendly to society; contracted; selfish; as, dissocial feelings.

Dissocialize (v. t.) To render unsocial.

Dissociated (imp. & p. p.) of Dissociate

Dissociating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissociate

Dissociate (v. t.) To separate from fellowship or union; to disunite; to disjoin; as, to dissociate the particles of a concrete substance.

Dissociation (n.) The act of dissociating or disuniting; a state of separation; disunion.

Dissociation (n.) The process by which a compound body breaks up into simpler constituents; -- said particularly of the action of heat on gaseous or volatile substances; as, the dissociation of the sulphur molecules; the dissociation of ammonium chloride into hydrochloric acid and ammonia.

Dissociative (a.) Tending or leading to dissociation.

Dissolubility (n.) The quality of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissolved by heat or moisture, and converted into a fluid.

Dissoluble (a.) Capable of being dissolved; having its parts separable by heat or moisture; convertible into a fluid.

Dissoluble (a.) Capable of being disunited.

Dissolubleness (n.) The quality of being dissoluble; dissolubility.

Dissolute (a.) With nerves unstrung; weak.

Dissolute (a.) Loosed from restraint; esp., loose in morals and conduct; recklessly abandoned to sensual pleasures; profligate; wanton; lewd; debauched.

Dissolutely (adv.) In a dissolute manner.

Dissoluteness (n.) State or quality of being dissolute; looseness of morals and manners; addictedness to sinful pleasures; debauchery; dissipation.

Dissolution (n.) The act of dissolving, sundering, or separating into component parts; separation.

Dissolution (n.) Change from a solid to a fluid state; solution by heat or moisture; liquefaction; melting.

Dissolution (n.) Change of form by chemical agency; decomposition; resolution.

Dissolution (n.) The dispersion of an assembly by terminating its sessions; the breaking up of a partnership.

Dissolution (n.) The extinction of life in the human body; separation of the soul from the body; death.

Dissolution (n.) The state of being dissolved, or of undergoing liquefaction.

Dissolution (n.) The new product formed by dissolving a body; a solution.

Dissolution (n.) Destruction of anything by the separation of its parts; ruin.

Dissolution (n.) Corruption of morals; dissipation; dissoluteness.

Dissolvability (n.) Capacity of being dissolved; solubility.

Dissolvable (a.) Capable of being dissolved, or separated into component parts; capable of being liquefied; soluble.

Dissolvative (n.) Having the power to dissolve anything; solvent.

Dissolved (imp. & p. p.) of Dissolve

Dissolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissolve

Dissolve (v. t.) To separate into competent parts; to disorganize; to break up; hence, to bring to an end by separating the parts, sundering a relation, etc.; to terminate; to destroy; to deprive of force; as, to dissolve a partnership; to dissolve Parliament.

Dissolve (v. t.) To break the continuity of; to disconnect; to disunite; to sunder; to loosen; to undo; to separate.

Dissolve (v. t.) To convert into a liquid by means of heat, moisture, etc.,; to melt; to liquefy; to soften.

Dissolve (v. t.) To solve; to clear up; to resolve.

Dissolve (v. t.) To relax by pleasure; to make powerless.

Dissolve (v. t.) To annul; to rescind; to discharge or release; as, to dissolve an injunction.

Dissolve (v. i.) To waste away; to be dissipated; to be decomposed or broken up.

Dissolve (v. i.) To become fluid; to be melted; to be liquefied.

Dissolve (v. i.) To fade away; to fall to nothing; to lose power.

Dissolvent (a.) Having power to dissolve power to dissolve a solid body; as, the dissolvent juices of the stomach.

Dissolvent (n.) That which has the power of dissolving or melting other substances, esp. by mixture with them; a menstruum; a solvent.

Dissolvent (n.) A remedy supposed capable of dissolving concretions in the body, such as calculi, tubercles, etc.

Dissolver (n.) One who, or that which, has power to dissolve or dissipate.

Dissolving (a.) Melting; breaking up; vanishing.

Dissonance (n.) A mingling of discordant sounds; an inharmonious combination of sounds; discord.

Dissonance (n.) Want of agreement; incongruity.

Dissonancy (n.) Discord; dissonance.

Dissonant (a.) Sounding harshly; discordant; unharmonious.

Dissonant (a.) Disagreeing; incongruous; discrepant, -- with from or to.

Disspirit (v. t.) See Dispirit.

Dissuaded (imp. & p. p.) of Dissuade

Dissuading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissuade

Dissuade (v. t.) To advise or exhort against; to try to persuade (one from a course).

Dissuade (v. t.) To divert by persuasion; to turn from a purpose by reasons or motives; -- with from; as, I could not dissuade him from his purpose.

Dissuader (n.) One who dissuades; a dehorter.

Dissuasion (n.) The act of dissuading; exhortation against a thing; dehortation.

Dissuasion (n.) A motive or consideration tending to dissuade; a dissuasive.

Dissuasive (a.) Tending to dissuade or divert from a measure or purpose; dehortatory; as, dissuasive advice.

Dissuasive (n.) A dissuasive argument or counsel; dissuasion; dehortation.

Dissuasory (n.) A dissuasive.

Dissundered (imp. & p. p.) of Dissunder

Dissundering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissunder

Dissunder (v. t.) To separate; to sunder; to destroy.

Dissweeten (v. t.) To deprive of sweetness.

Dissyllabic (a.) Consisting of two syllables only; as, a dissyllabic foot in poetry.

Dissyllabification (n.) A forming into two syllables.

Dissyllabify (v. t.) To form into two syllables.

Dissyllabize (v. t.) To form into two syllables; to dissyllabify.

Dissyllable (n.) A word of two syllables; as, pa-per.

Dissymmetrical (a.) Not having symmetry; asymmetrical; unsymmetrical.

Dissymmetry (n.) Absence or defect of symmetry; asymmetry.

Dissympathy (n.) Lack of sympathy; want of interest; indifference.

Distad (adv.) Toward a distal part; on the distal side of; distally.

Distaffs (pl. ) of Distaff

Distaves (pl. ) of Distaff

Distaff (n.) The staff for holding a bunch of flax, tow, or wool, from which the thread is drawn in spinning by hand.

Distaff (n.) Used as a symbol of the holder of a distaff; hence, a woman; women, collectively.

Distained (imp. & p. p.) of Distain

Distaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distain

Distain (v. t.) To tinge with a different color from the natural or proper one; to stain; to discolor; to sully; to tarnish; to defile; -- used chiefly in poetry.

Distal (a.) Remote from the point of attachment or origin; as, the distal end of a bone or muscle

Distal (a.) Pertaining to that which is distal; as, the distal tuberosities of a bone.

Distally (adv.) Toward a distal part.

Distance (n.) The space between two objects; the length of a line, especially the shortest line joining two points or things that are separate; measure of separation in place.

Distance (n.) Remoteness of place; a remote place.

Distance (n.) A space marked out in the last part of a race course.

Distance (n.) Relative space, between troops in ranks, measured from front to rear; -- contrasted with interval, which is measured from right to left.

Distance (n.) Space between two antagonists in fencing.

Distance (n.) The part of a picture which contains the representation of those objects which are the farthest away, esp. in a landscape.

Distance (n.) Ideal disjunction; discrepancy; contrariety.

Distance (n.) Length or interval of time; period, past or future, between two eras or events.

Distance (n.) The remoteness or reserve which respect requires; hence, respect; ceremoniousness.

Distance (n.) A withholding of intimacy; alienation; coldness; disagreement; variance; restraint; reserve.

Distance (n.) Remoteness in succession or relation; as, the distance between a descendant and his ancestor.

Distance (n.) The interval between two notes; as, the distance of a fourth or seventh.

Distanced (imp. & p. p.) of Distance

Distancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distance

Distance (v. t.) To place at a distance or remotely.

Distance (v. t.) To cause to appear as if at a distance; to make seem remote.

Distance (v. t.) To outstrip by as much as a distance (see Distance, n., 3); to leave far behind; to surpass greatly.

Distancy (n.) Distance.

Distant (a.) Separated; having an intervening space; at a distance; away.

Distant (a.) Far separated; far off; not near; remote; -- in place, time, consanguinity, or connection; as, distant times; distant relatives.

Distant (a.) Reserved or repelling in manners; cold; not cordial; somewhat haughty; as, a distant manner.

Distant (a.) Indistinct; faint; obscure, as from distance.

Distant (a.) Not conformable; discrepant; repugnant; as, a practice so widely distant from Christianity.

Distantial (a.) Distant.

Distantly (adv.) At a distance; remotely; with reserve.

Distaste (n.) Aversion of the taste; dislike, as of food or drink; disrelish.

Distaste (n.) Discomfort; uneasiness.

Distaste (n.) Alienation of affection; displeasure; anger.

Distasted (imp. & p. p.) of Distaste

Distasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distaste

Distaste (v. t.) Not to have relish or taste for; to disrelish; to loathe; to dislike.

Distaste (v. t.) To offend; to disgust; to displease.

Distaste (v. t.) To deprive of taste or relish; to make unsavory or distasteful.

Distaste (v. i.) To be distasteful; to taste ill or disagreeable.

Distasteful (a.) Unpleasant or disgusting to the taste; nauseous; loathsome.

Distasteful (a.) Offensive; displeasing to the feelings; disagreeable; as, a distasteful truth.

Distasteful (a.) Manifesting distaste or dislike; repulsive.

Distasteive (a.) Tending to excite distaste.

Distasteive (n.) That which excites distaste or aversion.

Distasture (n.) Something which excites distaste or disgust.

Distempered (imp. & p. p.) of Distemper

Distempering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distemper

Distemper (v. t.) To temper or mix unduly; to make disproportionate; to change the due proportions of.

Distemper (v. t.) To derange the functions of, whether bodily, mental, or spiritual; to disorder; to disease.

Distemper (v. t.) To deprive of temper or moderation; to disturb; to ruffle; to make disaffected, ill-humored, or malignant.

Distemper (v. t.) To intoxicate.

Distemper (v. t.) To mix (colors) in the way of distemper; as, to distemper colors with size.

Distemper (v. t.) An undue or unnatural temper, or disproportionate mixture of parts.

Distemper (v. t.) Severity of climate; extreme weather, whether hot or cold.

Distemper (v. t.) A morbid state of the animal system; indisposition; malady; disorder; -- at present chiefly applied to diseases of brutes; as, a distemper in dogs; the horse distemper; the horn distemper in cattle.

Distemper (v. t.) Morbid temper of the mind; undue predominance of a passion or appetite; mental derangement; bad temper; ill humor.

Distemper (v. t.) Political disorder; tumult.

Distemper (v. t.) A preparation of opaque or body colors, in which the pigments are tempered or diluted with weak glue or size (cf. Tempera) instead of oil, usually for scene painting, or for walls and ceilings of rooms.

Distemper (v. t.) A painting done with this preparation.

Distemperance (n.) Distemperature.

Distemperate (a.) Immoderate.

Distemperate (a.) Diseased; disordered.

Distemperately (adv.) Unduly.

Distemperature (n.) Bad temperature; intemperateness; excess of heat or cold, or of other qualities; as, the distemperature of the air.

Distemperature (n.) Disorder; confusion.

Distemperature (n.) Disorder of body; slight illness; distemper.

Distemperature (n.) Perturbation of mind; mental uneasiness.

Distemperment (n.) Distempered state; distemperature.

Distended (imp. & p. p.) of Distend

Distending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distend

Distend (v. t.) To extend in some one direction; to lengthen out; to stretch.

Distend (v. t.) To stretch out or extend in all directions; to dilate; to enlarge, as by elasticity of parts; to inflate so as to produce tension; to cause to swell; as, to distend a bladder, the stomach, etc.

Distend (v. i.) To become expanded or inflated; to swell.

Distensibility (n.) The quality or capacity of being distensible.

Distensible (a.) Capable of being distended or dilated.

Distension (n.) Same as Distention.

Distensive (a.) Distending, or capable of being distended.

Distent (a.) Distended.

Distent (n.) Breadth.

Distention (n.) The act of distending; the act of stretching in breadth or in all directions; the state of being Distended; as, the distention of the lungs.

Distention (n.) Breadth; extent or space occupied by the thing distended.

Dister (v. t.) To banish or drive from a country.

Disterminate (a.) Separated by bounds.

Distermination (n.) Separation by bounds.

Disthene (n.) Cyanite or kyanite; -- so called in allusion to its unequal hardness in two different directions. See Cyanite.

Disthrone (v. t.) To dethrone.

Disthronize (v. t.) To dethrone.

Distich (n.) A couple of verses or poetic lines making complete sense; an epigram of two verses.

Distich (n.) Alt. of Distichous

Distichous (n.) Disposed in two vertical rows; two-ranked.

Distichously (adv.) In a distichous manner.

Distil (v. t. & i.) See Distill.

Distilled (imp. & p. p.) of Distill

Distilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distill

Distill (n. & v) To drop; to fall in drops; to trickle.

Distill (n. & v) To flow gently, or in a small stream.

Distill (n. & v) To practice the art of distillation.

Distill (v. t.) To let fall or send down in drops.

Distill (v. t.) To obtain by distillation; to extract by distillation, as spirits, essential oil, etc.; to rectify; as, to distill brandy from wine; to distill alcoholic spirits from grain; to distill essential oils from flowers, etc.; to distill fresh water from sea water.

Distill (v. t.) To subject to distillation; as, to distill molasses in making rum; to distill barley, rye, corn, etc.

Distill (v. t.) To dissolve or melt.

Distillable (a.) Capable of being distilled; especially, capable of being distilled without chemical change or decomposition; as, alcohol is distillable; olive oil is not distillable.

Distillate (n.) The product of distillation; as, the distillate from molasses.

Distillation (n.) The act of falling in drops, or the act of pouring out in drops.

Distillation (n.) That which falls in drops.

Distillation (n.) The separation of the volatile parts of a substance from the more fixed; specifically, the operation of driving off gas or vapor from volatile liquids or solids, by heat in a retort or still, and the condensation of the products as far as possible by a cool receiver, alembic, or condenser; rectification; vaporization; condensation; as, the distillation of illuminating gas and coal, of alcohol from sour mash, or of boric acid in steam.

Distillation (n.) The substance extracted by distilling.

Distillatory (a.) Belonging to, or used in, distilling; as, distillatory vessels.

Distillatory (n.) A distillatory apparatus; a still.

Distiller (n.) One who distills; esp., one who extracts alcoholic liquors by distillation.

Distiller (n.) The condenser of a distilling apparatus.

Distilleries (pl. ) of Distillery

Distillery (n.) The building and works where distilling, esp. of alcoholic liquors, is carried on.

Distillery (n.) The act of distilling spirits.

Distillment (n.) Distillation; the substance obtained by distillation.

Distinct (a.) Distinguished; having the difference marked; separated by a visible sign; marked out; specified.

Distinct (a.) Marked; variegated.

Distinct (a.) Separate in place; not conjunct; not united by growth or otherwise; -- with from.

Distinct (a.) Not identical; different; individual.

Distinct (a.) So separated as not to be confounded with any other thing; not liable to be misunderstood; not confused; well-defined; clear; as, we have a distinct or indistinct view of a prospect.

Distinct (v. t.) To distinguish.

Distinction (n.) A marking off by visible signs; separation into parts; division.

Distinction (n.) The act of distinguishing or denoting the differences between objects, or the qualities by which one is known from others; exercise of discernment; discrimination.

Distinction (n.) That which distinguishes one thing from another; distinguishing quality; sharply defined difference; as, the distinction between real and apparent good.

Distinction (n.) Estimation of difference; regard to differences or distinguishing circumstance.

Distinction (n.) Conspicuous station; eminence; superiority; honorable estimation; as, a man of distinction.

Distinctive (a.) Marking or expressing distinction or difference; distinguishing; characteristic; peculiar.

Distinctive (a.) Having the power to distinguish and discern; discriminating.

Distinctively (adv.) With distinction; plainly.

Distinctiveness (n.) State of being distinctive.

Distinctly (adv.) With distinctness; not confusedly; without the blending of one part or thing another; clearly; plainly; as, to see distinctly.

Distinctly (adv.) With meaning; significantly.

Distinctness (n.) The quality or state of being distinct; a separation or difference that prevents confusion of parts or things.

Distinctness (n.) Nice discrimination; hence, clearness; precision; as, he stated his arguments with great distinctness.

Distincture (n.) Distinctness.

Distinguished (imp. & p. p.) of Distinguish

Distinguishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distinguish

Distinguish (v. t.) Not set apart from others by visible marks; to make distinctive or discernible by exhibiting differences; to mark off by some characteristic.

Distinguish (v. t.) To separate by definition of terms or logical division of a subject with regard to difference; as, to distinguish sounds into high and low.

Distinguish (v. t.) To recognize or discern by marks, signs, or characteristic quality or qualities; to know and discriminate (anything) from other things with which it might be confounded; as, to distinguish the sound of a drum.

Distinguish (v. t.) To constitute a difference; to make to differ.

Distinguish (v. t.) To separate from others by a mark of honor; to make eminent or known; to confer distinction upon; -- with by or for.

Distinguish (v. i.) To make distinctions; to perceive the difference; to exercise discrimination; -- with between; as, a judge distinguishes between cases apparently similar, but differing in principle.

Distinguish (v. i.) To become distinguished or distinctive; to make one's self or itself discernible.

Distinguishable (a.) Capable of being distinguished; separable; divisible; discernible; capable of recognition; as, a tree at a distance is distinguishable from a shrub.

Distinguishable (a.) Worthy of note or special regard.

Distinguishableness (n.) The quality of being distinguishable.

Distinguishably (adv.) So as to be distinguished.

Distinguished (a.) Marked; special.

Distinguished (a.) Separated from others by distinct difference; having, or indicating, superiority; eminent or known; illustrious; -- applied to persons and deeds.

Distinguishedly (adv.) In a distinguished manner.

Distinguisher (n.) One who, or that which, distinguishes or separates one thing from another by marks of diversity.

Distinguisher (n.) One who discerns accurately the difference of things; a nice or judicious observer.

Distinguishing (a.) Constituting difference, or distinction from everything else; distinctive; peculiar; characteristic.

Distinguishingly (adv.) With distinction; with some mark of preference.

Distinguishment (n.) Observation of difference; distinction.

Distitle (v. t.) To deprive of title or right.

Distoma (n.) A genus of parasitic, trematode worms, having two suckers for attaching themselves to the part they infest. See 1st Fluke, 2.

Distort (a.) Distorted; misshapen.

Distorted (imp. & p. p.) of Distort

Distorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distort

Distort (v. t.) To twist of natural or regular shape; to twist aside physically; as, to distort the limbs, or the body.

Distort (v. t.) To force or put out of the true posture or direction; to twist aside mentally or morally.

Distort (v. t.) To wrest from the true meaning; to pervert; as, to distort passages of Scripture, or their meaning.

Distorter (n.) One who, or that which, distorts.

Distortion (n.) The act of distorting, or twisting out of natural or regular shape; a twisting or writhing motion; as, the distortions of the face or body.

Distortion (n.) A wresting from the true meaning.

Distortion (n.) The state of being distorted, or twisted out of shape or out of true position; crookedness; perversion.

Distortion (n.) An unnatural deviation of shape or position of any part of the body producing visible deformity.

Distortive (a.) Causing distortion.

Distract (a.) Separated; drawn asunder.

Distract (a.) Insane; mad.

Distracted (imp. & p. p.) of Distract

Distraught (p. p.) of Distract

Distracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distract

Distract (v. t.) To draw apart or away; to divide; to disjoin.

Distract (v. t.) To draw (the sight, mind, or attention) in different directions; to perplex; to confuse; as, to distract the eye; to distract the attention.

Distract (v. t.) To agitate by conflicting passions, or by a variety of motives or of cares; to confound; to harass.

Distract (v. t.) To unsettle the reason of; to render insane; to craze; to madden; -- most frequently used in the participle, distracted.

Distracted (a.) Mentally disordered; unsettled; mad.

Distractedly (adv.) Disjointedly; madly.

Distractedness (n.) A state of being distracted; distraction.

Distracter (n.) One who, or that which, distracts away.

Distractful (a.) Distracting.

Distractible (a.) Capable of being drawn aside or distracted.

Distractile (a.) Tending or serving to draw apart.

Distracting (a.) Tending or serving to distract.

Distraction (n.) The act of distracting; a drawing apart; separation.

Distraction (n.) That which diverts attention; a diversion.

Distraction (n.) A diversity of direction; detachment.

Distraction (n.) State in which the attention is called in different ways; confusion; perplexity.

Distraction (n.) Confusion of affairs; tumult; disorder; as, political distractions.

Distraction (n.) Agitation from violent emotions; perturbation of mind; despair.

Distraction (n.) Derangement of the mind; madness.

Distractious (a.) Distractive.

Distractive (a.) Causing perplexity; distracting.

Distrained (imp. & p. p.) of Distrain

Distraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distrain

Distrain (v. t.) To press heavily upon; to bear down upon with violence; hence, to constrain or compel; to bind; to distress, torment, or afflict.

Distrain (v. t.) To rend; to tear.

Distrain (v. t.) To seize, as a pledge or indemnification; to take possession of as security for nonpayment of rent, the reparation of an injury done, etc.; to take by distress; as, to distrain goods for rent, or of an amercement.

Distrain (v. t.) To subject to distress; to coerce; as, to distrain a person by his goods and chattels.

Distrain (v. i.) To levy a distress.

Distrainable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, distrained.

Distrainer (n.) Same as Distrainor.

Distrainor (n.) One who distrains; the party distraining goods or chattels.

Distraint (n.) The act or proceeding of seizing personal property by distress.

Distrait (a.) Absent-minded; lost in thought; abstracted.

Distraught (a.) Torn asunder; separated.

Distraught (a.) Distracted; perplexed.

Distraughted (a.) Distracted.

Distream (v. i.) To flow.

Distress (n.) Extreme pain or suffering; anguish of body or mind; as, to suffer distress from the gout, or from the loss of friends.

Distress (n.) That which occasions suffering; painful situation; misfortune; affliction; misery.

Distress (n.) A state of danger or necessity; as, a ship in distress, from leaking, loss of spars, want of provisions or water, etc.

Distress (n.) The act of distraining; the taking of a personal chattel out of the possession of a wrongdoer, by way of pledge for redress of an injury, or for the performance of a duty, as for nonpayment of rent or taxes, or for injury done by cattle, etc.

Distress (n.) The thing taken by distraining; that which is seized to procure satisfaction.

Distressed (imp. & p. p.) of Distress

Distressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distress

Distress (n.) To cause pain or anguish to; to pain; to oppress with calamity; to afflict; to harass; to make miserable.

Distress (n.) To compel by pain or suffering.

Distress (n.) To seize for debt; to distrain.

Distressedness (n.) A state of being distressed or greatly pained.

Distressful (a.) Full of distress; causing, indicating, or attended with, distress; as, a distressful situation.

Distressing (a.) Causing distress; painful; unpleasant.

Distressing (adv.) In a distressing manner.

Distributable (a.) Capable of being distributed.

Distributary (a.) Tending to distribute or be distributed; that distributes; distributive.

Distributed (imp. & p. p.) of Distribute

Distributing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distribute

Distribute (v. t.) To divide among several or many; to deal out; to apportion; to allot.

Distribute (v. t.) To dispense; to administer; as, to distribute justice.

Distribute (v. t.) To divide or separate, as into classes, orders, kinds, or species; to classify; to assort, as specimens, letters, etc.

Distribute (v. t.) To separate (type which has been used) and return it to the proper boxes in the cases.

Distribute (v. t.) To spread (ink) evenly, as upon a roller or a table.

Distribute (v. t.) To employ (a term) in its whole extent; to take as universal in one premise.

Distribute (v. i.) To make distribution.

Distributer (n.) One who, or that which, distributes or deals out anything; a dispenser.

Distributing (a.) That distributes; dealing out.

Distribution (n.) The act of distributing or dispensing; the act of dividing or apportioning among several or many; apportionment; as, the distribution of an estate among heirs or children.

Distribution (n.) Separation into parts or classes; arrangement of anything into parts; disposition; classification.

Distribution (n.) That which is distributed.

Distribution (n.) A resolving a whole into its parts.

Distribution (n.) The sorting of types and placing them in their proper boxes in the cases.

Distribution (n.) The steps or operations by which steam is supplied to and withdrawn from the cylinder at each stroke of the piston; viz., admission, suppression or cutting off, release or exhaust, and compression of exhaust steam prior to the next admission.

Distributional (a.) Of or pertaining to distribution.

Distributionist (n.) A distributer.

Distributive (a.) Tending to distribute; serving to divide and assign in portions; dealing to each his proper share.

Distributive (a.) Assigning the species of a general term.

Distributive (a.) Expressing separation; denoting a taking singly, not collectively; as, a distributive adjective or pronoun, such as each, either, every; a distributive numeral, as (Latin) bini (two by two).

Distributive (n.) A distributive adjective or pronoun; also, a distributive numeral.

Distributively (adv.) By distribution; singly; not collectively; in a distributive manner.

Distributiveness (n.) Quality of being distributive.

District (a.) Rigorous; stringent; harsh.

District (n.) The territory within which the lord has the power of coercing and punishing.

District (n.) A division of territory; a defined portion of a state, town, or city, etc., made for administrative, electoral, or other purposes; as, a congressional district, judicial district, land district, school district, etc.

District (n.) Any portion of territory of undefined extent; a region; a country; a tract.

Districted (imp. & p. p.) of District

Districting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of District

District (v. t.) To divide into districts or limited portions of territory; as, legislatures district States for the choice of representatives.

Distriction (n.) Sudden display; flash; glitter.

Districtly (adv.) Strictly.

Distringas (n.) A writ commanding the sheriff to distrain a person by his goods or chattels, to compel a compliance with something required of him.

Distrouble (v. t.) To trouble.

Distrusted (imp. & p. p.) of Distrust

Distrusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distrust

Distrust (v. t.) To feel absence of trust in; not to confide in or rely upon; to deem of questionable sufficiency or reality; to doubt; to be suspicious of; to mistrust.

Distrust (n.) Doubt of sufficiency, reality, or sincerity; want of confidence, faith, or reliance; as, distrust of one's power, authority, will, purposes, schemes, etc.

Distrust (n.) Suspicion of evil designs.

Distrust (n.) State of being suspected; loss of trust.

Distruster (n.) One who distrusts.

Distrustful (a.) Not confident; diffident; wanting confidence or thrust; modest; as, distrustful of ourselves, of one's powers.

Distrustful (a.) Apt to distrust; suspicious; mistrustful.

Distrusting (a.) That distrusts; suspicious; lacking confidence in.

Distrustless (a.) Free from distrust.

Distune (v. t.) To put out of tune.

Disturbed (imp. & p. p.) of Disturb

Disturbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disturb

Disturb (v. t.) To throw into disorder or confusion; to derange; to interrupt the settled state of; to excite from a state of rest.

Disturb (v. t.) To agitate the mind of; to deprive of tranquillity; to disquiet; to render uneasy; as, a person is disturbed by receiving an insult, or his mind is disturbed by envy.

Disturb (v. t.) To turn from a regular or designed course.

Disturb (n.) Disturbance.

Disturbance (n.) An interruption of a state of peace or quiet; derangement of the regular course of things; disquiet; disorder; as, a disturbance of religious exercises; a disturbance of the galvanic current.

Disturbance (n.) Confusion of the mind; agitation of the feelings; perplexity; uneasiness.

Disturbance (n.) Violent agitation in the body politic; public commotion; tumult.

Disturbance (n.) The hindering or disquieting of a person in the lawful and peaceable enjoyment of his right; the interruption of a right; as, the disturbance of a franchise, of common, of ways, and the like.

Disturbation (n.) Act of disturbing; disturbance.

Disturber (n.) One who, or that which, disturbs of disquiets; a violator of peace; a troubler.

Disturber (n.) One who interrupts or incommodes another in the peaceable enjoyment of his right.

Disturn (v. t.) To turn aside.

Distyle (a.) Having two columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or the like.

Disulphate (n.) A salt of disulphuric or pyrosulphuric acid; a pyrosulphate.

Disulphate (n.) An acid salt of sulphuric acid, having only one equivalent of base to two of the acid.

Disulphide (n.) A binary compound of sulphur containing two atoms of sulphur in each molecule; -- formerly called disulphuret. Cf. Bisulphide.

Disulphuret (n.) See Disulphide.

Disulphuric (a.) Applied to an acid having in each molecule two atoms of sulphur in the higher state of oxidation.

Disuniform (a.) Not uniform.

Disunion (n.) The termination of union; separation; disjunction; as, the disunion of the body and the soul.

Disunion (n.) A breach of concord and its effect; alienation.

Disunion (n.) The termination or disruption of the union of the States forming the United States.

Disunionist (n.) An advocate of disunion, specifically, of disunion of the United States.

Disunited (imp. & p. p.) of Disunite

Disuniting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disunite

Disunite (v. t.) To destroy the union of; to divide; to part; to sever; to disjoin; to sunder; to separate; as, to disunite particles of matter.

Disunite (v. t.) To alienate in spirit; to break the concord of.

Disunite (v. i.) To part; to fall asunder; to become separated.

Disuniter (n.) One who, or that which, disjoins or causes disunion.

Disunity (n.) A state of separation or disunion; want of unity.

Disusage (n.) Gradual cessation of use or custom; neglect of use; disuse.

Disused (imp. & p. p.) of Disuse

Disusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disuse

Disuse (v. t.) To cease to use; to discontinue the practice of.

Disuse (v. t.) To disaccustom; -- with to or from; as, disused to toil.

Disuse (n.) Cessation of use, practice, or exercise; inusitation; desuetude; as, the limbs lose their strength by disuse.

Disutilize (v. t.) To deprive of utility; to render useless.

Disvaluation (n.) Disesteem; depreciation; disrepute.

Disvalue (v. t.) To undervalue; to depreciate.

Disvalue (n.) Disesteem; disregard.

Disvantageous (a.) Disadvantageous.

Disvelop (v. t.) To develop.

Disventure (n.) A disadventure.

Disvouch (v. t.) To discredit; to contradict.

Diswarn (v. t.) To dissuade from by previous warning.

Diswitted (a.) Deprived of wits or understanding; distracted.

Diswont (v. t.) To deprive of wonted usage; to disaccustom.

Disworkmanship (n.) Bad workmanship.

Disworship (v. t.) To refuse to worship; to treat as unworthy.

Disworship (n.) A deprivation of honor; a cause of disgrace; a discredit.

Disworth (v. t.) To deprive of worth; to degrade.

Disyoke (v. t.) To unyoke; to free from a yoke; to disjoin.

Dit (n.) A word; a decree.

Dit (n.) A ditty; a song.

Dit (v. t.) To close up.

Ditation (n.) The act of making rich; enrichment.

Ditches (pl. ) of Ditch

Ditch (n.) A trench made in the earth by digging, particularly a trench for draining wet land, for guarding or fencing inclosures, or for preventing an approach to a town or fortress. In the latter sense, it is called also a moat or a fosse.

Ditch (n.) Any long, narrow receptacle for water on the surface of the earth.

Ditched (imp. & p. p.) of Ditch

Ditching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ditch

Ditch (v. t.) To dig a ditch or ditches in; to drain by a ditch or ditches; as, to ditch moist land.

Ditch (v. t.) To surround with a ditch.

Ditch (v. t.) To throw into a ditch; as, the engine was ditched and turned on its side.

Ditch (v. i.) To dig a ditch or ditches.

Ditcher (n.) One who digs ditches.

Dite (v. t.) To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight.

Diterebene (n.) See Colophene.

Dithecal (a.) Alt. of Dithecous

Dithecous (a.) Having two thecae, cells, or compartments.

Ditheism (n.) The doctrine of those who maintain the existence of two gods or of two original principles (as in Manicheism), one good and one evil; dualism.

Ditheist (n.) One who holds the doctrine of ditheism; a dualist.

Ditheistic (a.) Alt. of Ditheistical

Ditheistical (a.) Pertaining to ditheism; dualistic.

Dithionic (a.) Containing two equivalents of sulphur; as, dithionic acid.

Dithyramb (n.) A kind of lyric poetry in honor of Bacchus, usually sung by a band of revelers to a flute accompaniment; hence, in general, a poem written in a wild irregular strain.

Dithyrambic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a dithyramb; wild and boisterous.

Dithyrambic (n.) A dithyrambic poem; a dithyramb.

Dithyrambus (n.) See Dithyramb.

Dition (n.) Dominion; rule.

Ditionary (a.) Under rule; subject; tributary.

Ditionary (n.) A subject; a tributary.

Ditokous (a.) Having two kinds of young, as certain annelids.

Ditokous (a.) Producing only two eggs for a clutch, as certain birds do.

Ditolyl (n.) A white, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C14H14, consisting of two radicals or residues of toluene.

Ditone (n.) The Greek major third, which comprehend two major tones (the modern major third contains one major and one minor whole tone).

Ditrichotomous (a.) Divided into twos or threes.

Ditrichotomous (a.) Dividing into double or treble ramifications; -- said of a leaf or stem.

Ditrochean (a.) Containing two trochees.

Ditrochee (n.) A double trochee; a foot made up of two trochees.

Ditroite (n.) An igneous rock composed of orthoclase, elaeolite, and sodalite.

Ditt (n.) See Dit, n., 2.

Dittander (n.) A kind of peppergrass (Lepidium latifolium).

Dittany (n.) A plant of the Mint family (Origanum Dictamnus), a native of Crete.

Dittany (n.) The Dictamnus Fraxinella. See Dictamnus.

Dittany (n.) In America, the Cunila Mariana, a fragrant herb of the Mint family.

Dittied (a.) Set, sung, or composed as a ditty; -- usually in composition.

Dittos (pl. ) of Ditto

Ditto (n.) The aforesaid thing; the same (as before). Often contracted to do., or to two turned commas (), or small marks. Used in bills, books of account, tables of names, etc., to save repetition.

Ditto (adv.) As before, or aforesaid; in the same manner; also.

Dittology (n.) A double reading, or twofold interpretation, as of a Scripture text.

Ditties (pl. ) of Ditty

Ditty (v. t.) A saying or utterance; especially, one that is short and frequently repeated; a theme.

Ditty (v. t.) A song; a lay; a little poem intended to be sung.

Ditty (v. i.) To sing; to warble a little tune.

Ditty-bag (n.) A sailor's small bag to hold thread, needles, tape, etc.; -- also called sailor's housewife.

Ditty-box (n.) A small box to hold a sailor's thread, needless, comb, etc.

Diureide (n.) One of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded as containing two molecules of urea or their radicals, as uric acid or allantoin. Cf. Ureide.

Diuresis (n.) Free excretion of urine.

Diuretic (a.) Tending to increase the secretion and discharge of urine.

Diuretic (n.) A medicine with diuretic properties.

Diuretical (a.) Diuretic.

Diureticalness (n.) The quality of being diuretical; diuretic property.

Diurna (n. pl.) A division of Lepidoptera, including the butterflies; -- so called because they fly only in the daytime.

Diurnal (a.) Relating to the daytime; belonging to the period of daylight, distinguished from the night; -- opposed to nocturnal; as, diurnal heat; diurnal hours.

Diurnal (a.) Daily; recurring every day; performed in a day; going through its changes in a day; constituting the measure of a day; as, a diurnal fever; a diurnal task; diurnal aberration, or diurnal parallax; the diurnal revolution of the earth.

Diurnal (a.) Opening during the day, and closing at night; -- said of flowers or leaves.

Diurnal (a.) Active by day; -- applied especially to the eagles and hawks among raptorial birds, and to butterflies (Diurna) among insects.

Diurnal (a.) A daybook; a journal.

Diurnal (a.) A small volume containing the daily service for the little hours, viz., prime, tierce, sext, nones, vespers, and compline.

Diurnal (a.) A diurnal bird or insect.

Diurnalist (n.) A journalist.

Diurnally (adv.) Daily; every day.

Diurnalness (n.) The quality of being diurnal.

Diurnation (n.) Continuance during the day.

Diurnation (n.) The condition of sleeping or becoming dormant by day, as is the case of the bats.

Diuturnal (a.) Of long continuance; lasting.

Diuturnity (n.) Long duration; lastingness.

Divagation (n.) A wandering about or going astray; digression.

Divalent (a.) Having two units of combining power; bivalent. Cf. Valence.

Divan (n.) A book; esp., a collection of poems written by one author; as, the divan of Hafiz.

Divan (n.) In Turkey and other Oriental countries: A council of state; a royal court. Also used by the poets for a grand deliberative council or assembly.

Divan (n.) A chief officer of state.

Divan (n.) A saloon or hall where a council is held, in Oriental countries, the state reception room in places, and in the houses of the richer citizens. Cushions on the floor or on benches are ranged round the room.

Divan (n.) A cushioned seat, or a large, low sofa or couch; especially, one fixed to its place, and not movable.

Divan (n.) A coffee and smoking saloon.

Divaricated (imp. & p. p.) of Divaricate

Divaricating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divaricate

Divaricate (v. i.) To part into two branches; to become bifid; to fork.

Divaricate (v. i.) To diverge; to be divaricate.

Divaricate (v. t.) To divide into two branches; to cause to branch apart.

Divaricate (a.) Diverging; spreading asunder; widely diverging.

Divaricate (a.) Forking and diverging; widely diverging; as the branches of a tree, or as lines of sculpture, or color markings on animals, etc.

Divaricately (adv.) With divarication.

Divarication (n.) A separation into two parts or branches; a forking; a divergence.

Divarication (n.) An ambiguity of meaning; a disagreement of difference in opinion.

Divarication (n.) A divergence of lines of color sculpture, or of fibers at different angles.

Divaricator (n.) One of the muscles which open the shell of brachiopods; a cardinal muscle. See Illust. of Brachiopoda.

Divast (a.) Devastated; laid waste.

Dived (imp. & p. p.) of Dive

Dove () of Dive

Diving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dive

Dive (v. i.) To plunge into water head foremost; to thrust the body under, or deeply into, water or other fluid.

Dive (v. i.) Fig.: To plunge or to go deeply into any subject, question, business, etc.; to penetrate; to explore.

Dive (v. t.) To plunge (a person or thing) into water; to dip; to duck.

Dive (v. t.) To explore by diving; to plunge into.

Dive (n.) A plunge headforemost into water, the act of one who dives, literally or figuratively.

Dive (n.) A place of low resort.

Divedapper (n.) A water fowl; the didapper. See Dabchick.

Divel (v. t.) To rend apart.

Divellent (a.) Drawing asunder.

Divellicate (v. t.) To pull in pieces.

Diver (n.) One who, or that which, dives.

Diver (n.) Fig.: One who goes deeply into a subject, study, or business.

Diver (n.) Any bird of certain genera, as Urinator (formerly Colymbus), or the allied genus Colymbus, or Podiceps, remarkable for their agility in diving.

Diverb (n.) A saying in which two members of the sentence are contrasted; an antithetical proverb.

Diverberate (v. t.) To strike or sound through.

Diverberation (n.) A sounding through.

Diverged (imp. & p. p.) of Diverge

Diverging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diverge

Diverge (v. i.) To extend from a common point in different directions; to tend from one point and recede from each other; to tend to spread apart; to turn aside or deviate (as from a given direction); -- opposed to converge; as, rays of light diverge as they proceed from the sun.

Diverge (v. i.) To differ from a typical form; to vary from a normal condition; to dissent from a creed or position generally held or taken.

Divergement (n.) Divergence.

Divergence (n.) Alt. of Divergency

Divergency (n.) A receding from each other in moving from a common center; the state of being divergent; as, an angle is made by the divergence of straight lines.

Divergency (n.) Disagreement; difference.

Divergent (a.) Receding farther and farther from each other, as lines radiating from one point; deviating gradually from a given direction; -- opposed to convergent.

Divergent (a.) Causing divergence of rays; as, a divergent lens.

Divergent (a.) Fig.: Disagreeing from something given; differing; as, a divergent statement.

Diverging (a.) Tending in different directions from a common center; spreading apart; divergent.

Divergingly (adv.) In a diverging manner.

Divers (a.) Different in kind or species; diverse.

Divers (a.) Several; sundry; various; more than one, but not a great number; as, divers philosophers. Also used substantively or pronominally.

Diverse (a.) Different; unlike; dissimilar; distinct; separate.

Diverse (a.) Capable of various forms; multiform.

Diverse (adv.) In different directions; diversely.

Diverse (v. i.) To turn aside.

Diversely (adv.) In different ways; differently; variously.

Diversely (adv.) In different directions; to different points.

Diverseness (n.) The quality of being diverse.

Diversifiability (n.) The quality or capacity of being diversifiable.

Diversifiable (a.) Capable of being diversified or varied.

Diversification (n.) The act of making various, or of changing form or quality.

Diversification (n.) State of diversity or variation; variegation; modification; change; alternation.

Diversified (a.) Distinguished by various forms, or by a variety of aspects or objects; variegated; as, diversified scenery or landscape.

Diversifier (n.) One who, or that which, diversifies.

Diversiform (a.) Of a different form; of varied forms.

Diversified (imp. & p. p.) of Diversify

Diversifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diversify

Diversify (v. t.) To make diverse or various in form or quality; to give variety to; to variegate; to distinguish by numerous differences or aspects.

Diversiloquent (a.) Speaking in different ways.

Diversion (n.) The act of turning aside from any course, occupation, or object; as, the diversion of a stream from its channel; diversion of the mind from business.

Diversion (n.) That which diverts; that which turns or draws the mind from care or study, and thus relaxes and amuses; sport; play; pastime; as, the diversions of youth.

Diversion (n.) The act of drawing the attention and force of an enemy from the point where the principal attack is to be made; the attack, alarm, or feint which diverts.

Diversities (pl. ) of Diversity

Diversity (n.) A state of difference; dissimilitude; unlikeness.

Diversity (n.) Multiplicity of difference; multiformity; variety.

Diversity (n.) Variegation.

Diversivolent (a.) Desiring different things.

Diversory (a.) Serving or tending to divert; also, distinguishing.

Diversory (n.) A wayside inn.

Diverted (imp. & p. p.) of Divert

Diverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divert

Divert (v. t.) To turn aside; to turn off from any course or intended application; to deflect; as, to divert a river from its channel; to divert commerce from its usual course.

Divert (v. t.) To turn away from any occupation, business, or study; to cause to have lively and agreeable sensations; to amuse; to entertain; as, children are diverted with sports; men are diverted with works of wit and humor.

Divert (v. i.) To turn aside; to digress.

Diverter (n.) One who, or that which, diverts, turns off, or pleases.

Divertible (a.) Capable of being diverted.

Diverticle (n.) A turning; a byway; a bypath.

Diverticle (n.) A diverticulum.

Diverticular (a.) Pertaining to a diverticulum.

Diverticula (pl. ) of Diverticulum

Diverticulum (n.) A blind tube branching out of a longer one.

-ti (pl. ) of Divertimento

Divertimento (n.) A light and pleasing composition.

Diverting (a.) Amusing; entertaining.

Divertise (v. t.) To divert; to entertain.

Divertisement (n.) Diversion; amusement; recreation.

Divertissement (n.) A short ballet, or other entertainment, between the acts of a play.

Divertive (a.) Tending to divert; diverting; amusing; interesting.

Dives (n.) The name popularly given to the rich man in our Lord's parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus (Luke xvi. 19-31). Hence, a name for a rich worldling.

Divested (imp. & p. p.) of Divest

Divesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divest

Divest (v. t.) To unclothe; to strip, as of clothes, arms, or equipage; -- opposed to invest.

Divest (v. t.) Fig.: To strip; to deprive; to dispossess; as, to divest one of his rights or privileges; to divest one's self of prejudices, passions, etc.

Divest (v. t.) See Devest.

Divestible (a.) Capable of being divested.

Divestiture (n.) The act of stripping, or depriving; the state of being divested; the deprivation, or surrender, of possession of property, rights, etc.

Divestment (n.) The act of divesting.

Divesture (n.) Divestiture.

Divet (n.) See Divot.

Dividable (a.) Capable of being divided; divisible.

Dividable (a.) Divided; separated; parted.

Dividant (a.) Different; distinct.

Divided (imp. & p. p.) of Divide

Dividing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divide

Divide (v. t.) To part asunder (a whole); to sever into two or more parts or pieces; to sunder; to separate into parts.

Divide (v. t.) To cause to be separate; to keep apart by a partition, or by an imaginary line or limit; as, a wall divides two houses; a stream divides the towns.

Divide (v. t.) To make partition of among a number; to apportion, as profits of stock among proprietors; to give in shares; to distribute; to mete out; to share.

Divide (v. t.) To disunite in opinion or interest; to make discordant or hostile; to set at variance.

Divide (v. t.) To separate into two parts, in order to ascertain the votes for and against a measure; as, to divide a legislative house upon a question.

Divide (v. t.) To subject to arithmetical division.

Divide (v. t.) To separate into species; -- said of a genus or generic term.

Divide (v. t.) To mark divisions on; to graduate; as, to divide a sextant.

Divide (v. t.) To play or sing in a florid style, or with variations.

Divide (v. i.) To be separated; to part; to open; to go asunder.

Divide (v. i.) To cause separation; to disunite.

Divide (v. i.) To break friendship; to fall out.

Divide (v. i.) To have a share; to partake.

Divide (v. i.) To vote, as in the British Parliament, by the members separating themselves into two parties (as on opposite sides of the hall or in opposite lobbies), that is, the ayes dividing from the noes.

Divide (n.) A dividing ridge of land between the tributaries of two streams; a watershed.

Divided (a.) Parted; disunited; distributed.

Divided (a.) Cut into distinct parts, by incisions which reach the midrib; -- said of a leaf.

Dividedly (adv.) Separately; in a divided manner.

Dividend (n.) A sum of money to be divided and distributed; the share of a sum divided that falls to each individual; a distribute sum, share, or percentage; -- applied to the profits as appropriated among shareholders, and to assets as apportioned among creditors; as, the dividend of a bank, a railway corporation, or a bankrupt estate.

Dividend (n.) A number or quantity which is to be divided.

Divident (n.) Dividend; share.

Divider (n.) One who, or that which, divides; that which separates anything into parts.

Divider (n.) One who deals out to each his share.

Divider (n.) One who, or that which, causes division.

Divider (n.) An instrument for dividing lines, describing circles, etc., compasses. See Compasses.

Dividing (a.) That divides; separating; marking divisions; graduating.

Dividingly (adv.) By division.

Divi-divi (n.) A small tree of tropical America (Caesalpinia coriaria), whose legumes contain a large proportion of tannic and gallic acid, and are used by tanners and dyers.

Dividual (a.) Divided, shared, or participated in, in common with others.

Dividually (adv.) By dividing.

Dividuous (a.) Divided; dividual.

Divination (n.) The act of divining; a foreseeing or foretelling of future events; the pretended art discovering secret or future by preternatural means.

Divination (n.) An indication of what is future or secret; augury omen; conjectural presage; prediction.

Divinator (n.) One who practices or pretends to divination; a diviner.

Divinatory (a.) Professing, or relating to, divination.

Divine (a.) Of or belonging to God; as, divine perfections; the divine will.

Divine (a.) Proceeding from God; as, divine judgments.

Divine (a.) Appropriated to God, or celebrating his praise; religious; pious; holy; as, divine service; divine songs; divine worship.

Divine (a.) Pertaining to, or proceeding from, a deity; partaking of the nature of a god or the gods.

Divine (a.) Godlike; heavenly; excellent in the highest degree; supremely admirable; apparently above what is human. In this application, the word admits of comparison; as, the divinest mind. Sir J. Davies.

Divine (a.) Presageful; foreboding; prescient.

Divine (a.) Relating to divinity or theology.

Divine (a.) One skilled in divinity; a theologian.

Divine (a.) A minister of the gospel; a priest; a clergyman.

Divined (imp. & p. p.) of Divine

Divining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divine

Divine (v. t.) To foresee or foreknow; to detect; to anticipate; to conjecture.

Divine (v. t.) To foretell; to predict; to presage.

Divine (v. t.) To render divine; to deify.

Divine (v. i.) To use or practice divination; to foretell by divination; to utter prognostications.

Divine (v. i.) To have or feel a presage or foreboding.

Divine (v. i.) To conjecture or guess; as, to divine rightly.

Divinely (adv.) In a divine or godlike manner; holily; admirably or excellently in a supreme degree.

Divinely (adv.) By the agency or influence of God.

Divinement (n.) Divination.

Divineness (n.) The quality of being divine; superhuman or supreme excellence.

Diviner (n.) One who professes divination; one who pretends to predict events, or to reveal occult things, by supernatural means.

Diviner (n.) A conjecture; a guesser; one who makes out occult things.

Divineress (n.) A woman who divines.

Diving (a.) That dives or is used or diving.

Divinify (v. t.) To render divine; to deify.

Divining (a.) That divines; for divining.

Diviningly (adv.) In a divining manner.

Divinistre (n.) A diviner.

Divinities (pl. ) of Divinity

Divinity (a.) The state of being divine; the nature or essence of God; deity; godhead.

Divinity (a.) The Deity; the Supreme Being; God.

Divinity (a.) A pretended deity of pagans; a false god.

Divinity (a.) A celestial being, inferior to the supreme God, but superior to man.

Divinity (a.) Something divine or superhuman; supernatural power or virtue; something which inspires awe.

Divinity (a.) The science of divine things; the science which treats of God, his laws and moral government, and the way of salvation; theology.

Divinization (n.) A making divine.

Divinize (v. t.) To invest with a divine character; to deify.

Divisibility (n.) The quality of being divisible; the property of bodies by which their parts are capable of separation.

Divisible (a.) Capable of being divided or separated.

Divisible (n.) A divisible substance.

Division (n.) The act or process of diving anything into parts, or the state of being so divided; separation.

Division (n.) That which divides or keeps apart; a partition.

Division (n.) The portion separated by the divining of a mass or body; a distinct segment or section.

Division (n.) Disunion; difference in opinion or feeling; discord; variance; alienation.

Division (n.) Difference of condition; state of distinction; distinction; contrast.

Division (n.) Separation of the members of a deliberative body, esp. of the Houses of Parliament, to ascertain the vote.

Division (n.) The process of finding how many times one number or quantity is contained in another; the reverse of multiplication; also, the rule by which the operation is performed.

Division (n.) The separation of a genus into its constituent species.

Division (n.) Two or more brigades under the command of a general officer.

Division (n.) Two companies of infantry maneuvering as one subdivision of a battalion.

Division (n.) One of the larger districts into which a country is divided for administering military affairs.

Division (n.) One of the groups into which a fleet is divided.

Division (n.) A course of notes so running into each other as to form one series or chain, to be sung in one breath to one syllable.

Division (n.) The distribution of a discourse into parts; a part so distinguished.

Division (n.) A grade or rank in classification; a portion of a tribe or of a class; or, in some recent authorities, equivalent to a subkingdom.

Divisional (a.) That divides; pertaining to, making, or noting, a division; as, a divisional line; a divisional general; a divisional surgeon of police.

Divisionally (adv.) So as to be divisional.

Divisionary (a.) Divisional.

Divisionor (n.) One who divides or makes division.

Divisive (a.) Indicating division or distribution.

Divisive (a.) Creating, or tending to create, division, separation, or difference.

Divisor (n.) The number by which the dividend is divided.

Divorce (n.) A legal dissolution of the marriage contract by a court or other body having competent authority. This is properly a divorce, and called, technically, divorce a vinculo matrimonii.

Divorce (n.) The separation of a married woman from the bed and board of her husband -- divorce a mensa et toro (/ thoro), from bed board.

Divorce (n.) The decree or writing by which marriage is dissolved.

Divorce (n.) Separation; disunion of things closely united.

Divorce (n.) That which separates.

Divorced (imp. & p. p.) of Divorce

Divorcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divorce

Divorce (n.) To dissolve the marriage contract of, either wholly or partially; to separate by divorce.

Divorce (n.) To separate or disunite; to sunder.

Divorce (n.) To make away; to put away.

Divorceable (a.) Capable of being divorced.

Divorcee (n.) A person divorced.

Divorceless (a.) Incapable of being divorced or separated; free from divorce.

Divorcement (n.) Dissolution of the marriage tie; divorce; separation.

Divorcer (n.) The person or cause that produces or effects a divorce.

Divorcible (a.) Divorceable.

Divorcive (a.) Having power to divorce; tending to divorce.

Divot (n.) A thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also for fuel.

Divulgate (a.) Published.

Divulgate (v. t.) To divulge.

Divulgater (n.) A divulger.

Divulgation (n.) The act of divulging or publishing.

Divulged (imp. & p. p.) of Divulge

Divulging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divulge

Divulge (v. t.) To make public; to several or communicate to the public; to tell (a secret) so that it may become generally known; to disclose; -- said of that which had been confided as a secret, or had been before unknown; as, to divulge a secret.

Divulge (v. t.) To indicate publicly; to proclaim.

Divulge (v. t.) To impart; to communicate.

Divulge (v. i.) To become publicly known.

Divulsive (a.) Tending to pull asunder, tear, or rend; distracting.

Dixie (n.) A colloquial name for the Southern portion of the United States, esp. during the Civil War.

Dizened (imp. & p. p.) of Dizen

Dizening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dizen

Dizen (v. t.) To dress; to attire.

Dizen (v. t.) To dress gaudily; to overdress; to bedizen; to deck out.

Dizz (v. t.) To make dizzy; to astonish; to puzzle.

Dizzard (n.) A blockhead. [Obs.] [Written also dizard, and disard.]

Dizzily (adv.) In a dizzy manner or state.

Dizziness (n.) Giddiness; a whirling sensation in the head; vertigo.

Dizzy (superl.) Having in the head a sensation of whirling, with a tendency to fall; vertiginous; giddy; hence, confused; indistinct.

Dizzy (superl.) Causing, or tending to cause, giddiness or vertigo.

Dizzy (superl.) Without distinct thought; unreflecting; thoughtless; heedless.

Dizzied (imp. & p. p.) of Dizzy

Dizzying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dizzy

Dizzy (v. t.) To make dizzy or giddy; to give the vertigo to; to confuse.

Djereed (n.) Alt. of Djerrid

Djerrid (n.) A blunt javelin used in military games in Moslem countries.

Djerrid (n.) A game played with it.

Jjinn (pl. ) of Djinnee

Djinns (pl. ) of Djinnee

Djinnee (n.) See Jinnee, Jinn.

Do. (n.) An abbreviation of Ditto.

Do (n.) A syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonic scale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio. It is the first of the seven syllables used by the Italians as manes of musical tones, and replaced, for the sake of euphony, the syllable Ut, applied to the note C. In England and America the same syllables are used by mane as a scale pattern, while the tones in respect to absolute pitch are named from the first seven letters of the alphabet.

Din (imp.) of Do

Done (p. p.) of Do

Doing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Do

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To place; to put.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To cause; to make; -- with an infinitive.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To bring about; to produce, as an effect or result; to effect; to achieve.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To perform, as an action; to execute; to transact to carry out in action; as, to do a good or a bad act; do our duty; to do what I can.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To bring to an end by action; to perform completely; to finish; to accomplish; -- a sense conveyed by the construction, which is that of the past participle done.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To make ready for an object, purpose, or use, as food by cooking; to cook completely or sufficiently; as, the meat is done on one side only.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To put or bring into a form, state, or condition, especially in the phrases, to do death, to put to death; to slay; to do away (often do away with), to put away; to remove; to do on, to put on; to don; to do off, to take off, as dress; to doff; to do into, to put into the form of; to translate or transform into, as a text.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To cheat; to gull; to overreach.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To see or inspect; to explore; as, to do all the points of interest.

Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To cash or to advance money for, as a bill or note.

Do (v. i.) To act or behave in any manner; to conduct one's self.

Do (v. i.) To fare; to be, as regards health; as, they asked him how he did; how do you do to-day?

Do (v. i.) To succeed; to avail; to answer the purpose; to serve; as, if no better plan can be found, he will make this do.

Do (n.) Deed; act; fear.

Do (n.) Ado; bustle; stir; to do.

Do (n.) A cheat; a swindle.

Doab () A tongue or tract of land included between two rivers; as, the doab between the Ganges and the Jumna.

Doable (a.) Capable of being done.

Do-all (n.) General manager; factotum.

Doand (p. pr.) Doing.

Doat (v. i.) See Dote.

Dobber (n.) See Dabchick.

Dobber (n.) A float to a fishing line.

Dobbin (n.) An old jaded horse.

Dobbin (n.) Sea gravel mixed with sand.

Dobchick (n.) See Dabchick.

Dobson (n.) The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydalus cornutus), used as bait in angling. See Hellgamite.

Dobule (n.) The European dace.

Docent (a.) Serving to instruct; teaching.

Docetae (n. pl.) Ancient heretics who held that Christ's body was merely a phantom or appearance.

Docetic (a.) Pertaining to, held by, or like, the Docetae.

Docetism (n.) The doctrine of the Docetae.

Dochmiac (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, the dochmius.

Dochmius (n.) A foot of five syllables (usually / -- -/ -).

Docibility (n.) Alt. of Docibleness

Docibleness (n.) Aptness for being taught; teachableness; docility.

Docible (a.) Easily taught or managed; teachable.

Docile (a.) Teachable; easy to teach; docible.

Docile (a.) Disposed to be taught; tractable; easily managed; as, a docile child.

Docility (n.) teachableness; aptness for being taught; docibleness.

Docility (n.) Willingness to be taught; tractableness.

Docimacy (n.) The art or practice of applying tests to ascertain the nature, quality, etc., of objects, as of metals or ores, of medicines, or of facts pertaining to physiology.

Docimastic (a.) Proving by experiments or tests.

Docimology (n.) A treatise on the art of testing, as in assaying metals, etc.

Docity (n.) Teachableness.

Dock (n.) A genus of plants (Rumex), some species of which are well-known weeds which have a long taproot and are difficult of extermination.

Dock (n.) The solid part of an animal's tail, as distinguished from the hair; the stump of a tail; the part of a tail left after clipping or cutting.

Dock (n.) A case of leather to cover the clipped or cut tail of a horse.

Docked (imp. & p. p.) of Dock

Docking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dock

Dock (v. t.) to cut off, as the end of a thing; to curtail; to cut short; to clip; as, to dock the tail of a horse.

Dock (v. t.) To cut off a part from; to shorten; to deduct from; to subject to a deduction; as, to dock one's wages.

Dock (v. t.) To cut off, bar, or destroy; as, to dock an entail.

Dock (n.) An artificial basin or an inclosure in connection with a harbor or river, -- used for the reception of vessels, and provided with gates for keeping in or shutting out the tide.

Dock (n.) The slip or water way extending between two piers or projecting wharves, for the reception of ships; -- sometimes including the piers themselves; as, to be down on the dock.

Dock (n.) The place in court where a criminal or accused person stands.

Dock (v. t.) To draw, law, or place (a ship) in a dock, for repairing, cleaning the bottom, etc.

Dockage (n.) A charge for the use of a dock.

Dock-cress (n.) Nipplewort.

Docket (n.) A small piece of paper or parchment, containing the heads of a writing; a summary or digest.

Docket (n.) A bill tied to goods, containing some direction, as the name of the owner, or the place to which they are to be sent; a label.

Docket (n.) An abridged entry of a judgment or proceeding in an action, or register or such entries; a book of original, kept by clerks of courts, containing a formal list of the names of parties, and minutes of the proceedings, in each case in court.

Docket (n.) A list or calendar of causes ready for hearing or trial, prepared for the use of courts by the clerks.

Docket (n.) A list or calendar of business matters to be acted on in any assembly.

Docketed (imp. & p. p.) of Docket

Docketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Docket

Docket (v. t.) To make a brief abstract of (a writing) and indorse it on the back of the paper, or to indorse the title or contents on the back of; to summarize; as, to docket letters and papers.

Docket (v. t.) To make a brief abstract of and inscribe in a book; as, judgments regularly docketed.

Docket (v. t.) To enter or inscribe in a docket, or list of causes for trial.

Docket (v. t.) To mark with a ticket; as, to docket goods.

Dockyard (n.) A yard or storage place for all sorts of naval stores and timber for shipbuilding.

Docoglossa (n. pl.) An order of gastropods, including the true limpets, and having the teeth on the odontophore or lingual ribbon.

Docquet (n. & v.) See Docket.

Doctor (n.) A teacher; one skilled in a profession, or branch of knowledge learned man.

Doctor (n.) An academical title, originally meaning a men so well versed in his department as to be qualified to teach it. Hence: One who has taken the highest degree conferred by a university or college, or has received a diploma of the highest degree; as, a doctor of divinity, of law, of medicine, of music, or of philosophy. Such diplomas may confer an honorary title only.

Doctor (n.) One duly licensed to practice medicine; a member of the medical profession; a physician.

Doctor (n.) Any mechanical contrivance intended to remedy a difficulty or serve some purpose in an exigency; as, the doctor of a calico-printing machine, which is a knife to remove superfluous coloring matter; the doctor, or auxiliary engine, called also donkey engine.

Doctor (n.) The friar skate.

Doctored (imp. & p. p.) of Doctor

Doctoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doctor

Doctor (v. t.) To treat as a physician does; to apply remedies to; to repair; as, to doctor a sick man or a broken cart.

Doctor (v. t.) To confer a doctorate upon; to make a doctor.

Doctor (v. t.) To tamper with and arrange for one's own purposes; to falsify; to adulterate; as, to doctor election returns; to doctor whisky.

Doctor (v. i.) To practice physic.

Doctoral (a.) Of or relating to a doctor, or to the degree of doctor.

Doctorally (adv.) In the manner of a doctor.

Doctorate (n.) The degree, title, or rank, of a doctor.

Doctorate (v. t.) To make (one) a doctor.

Doctoress (n.) A female doctor.

Doctorly (a.) Like a doctor or learned man.

Doctorship (n.) Doctorate.

Doctress (n.) A female doctor.

Doctrinable (a.) Of the nature of, or constituting, doctrine.

Doctrinaire (n.) One who would apply to political or other practical concerns the abstract doctrines or the theories of his own philosophical system; a propounder of a new set of opinions; a dogmatic theorist. Used also adjectively; as, doctrinaire notions.

Doctrinal (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, doctrine or something taught and to be believed; as, a doctrinal observation.

Doctrinal (a.) Pertaining to, or having to do with, teaching.

Doctrinal (n.) A matter of doctrine; also, a system of doctrines.

Doctrinally (adv.) In a doctrinal manner or for; by way of teaching or positive direction.

Doctrinarian (n.) A doctrinaire.

Doctrinarianism (n.) The principles or practices of the Doctrinaires.

Doctrine (n.) Teaching; instruction.

Doctrine (n.) That which is taught; what is held, put forth as true, and supported by a teacher, a school, or a sect; a principle or position, or the body of principles, in any branch of knowledge; any tenet or dogma; a principle of faith; as, the doctrine of atoms; the doctrine of chances.

Document (n.) That which is taught or authoritatively set forth; precept; instruction; dogma.

Document (n.) An example for instruction or warning.

Document (n.) An original or official paper relied upon as the basis, proof, or support of anything else; -- in its most extended sense, including any writing, book, or other instrument conveying information in the case; any material substance on which the thoughts of men are represented by any species of conventional mark or symbol.

Document (v. t.) To teach; to school.

Document (v. t.) To furnish with documents or papers necessary to establish facts or give information; as, a a ship should be documented according to the directions of law.

Documental (a.) Of or pertaining to instruction.

Documental (a.) Of or pertaining to written evidence; documentary; as, documental testimony.

Documentary (a.) Pertaining to written evidence; contained or certified in writing.

Dodd (v. t.) Alt. of Dod

Dod (v. t.) To cut off, as wool from sheep's tails; to lop or clip off.

Doddart (n.) A game much like hockey, played in an open field; also, the, bent stick for playing the game.

Dodded (a.) Without horns; as, dodded cattle; without beards; as, dodded corn.

Dodder (n.) A plant of the genus Cuscuta. It is a leafless parasitical vine with yellowish threadlike stems. It attaches itself to some other plant, as to flax, goldenrod, etc., and decaying at the root, is nourished by the plant that supports it.

Dodder (v. t. & i.) To shake, tremble, or totter.

Doddered (a.) Shattered; infirm.

Dodecagon (n.) A figure or polygon bounded by twelve sides and containing twelve angles.

Dodecagynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having twelve styles.

Dodecagynian (a.) Alt. of Dodecagynous

Dodecagynous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Dodecagynia; having twelve styles.

Dodecahedral (a.) Pertaining to, or like, a dodecahedion; consisting of twelve equal sides.

Dodecahedron (n.) A solid having twelve faces.

Dodecandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants including all that have any number of stamens between twelve and nineteen.

Dodecandrian (a.) Alt. of Dodecandrous

Dodecandrous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Dodecandria; having twelve stamens, or from twelve to nineteen.

Dodecane (n.) Any one of a group of thick oily hydrocarbons, C12H26, of the paraffin series.

Dodecastyle (a.) Having twelve columns in front.

Dodecastyle (n.) A dodecastyle portico, or building.

Dodecasyllabic (a.) Having twelve syllables.

Dodecasyllable (n.) A word consisting of twelve syllables.

Dodecatemory (n.) A tern applied to the twelve houses, or parts, of the zodiac of the primum mobile, to distinguish them from the twelve signs; also, any one of the twelve signs of the zodiac.

Dodged (imp. & p. p.) of Dodge

Dodging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dodge

Dodge (v. i.) To start suddenly aside, as to avoid a blow or a missile; to shift place by a sudden start.

Dodge (v. i.) To evade a duty by low craft; to practice mean shifts; to use tricky devices; to play fast and loose; to quibble.

Dodge (v. t.) To evade by a sudden shift of place; to escape by starting aside; as, to dodge a blow aimed or a ball thrown.

Dodge (v. t.) Fig.: To evade by craft; as, to dodge a question; to dodge responsibility.

Dodge (v. t.) To follow by dodging, or suddenly shifting from place to place.

Dodge (n.) The act of evading by some skillful movement; a sudden starting aside; hence, an artful device to evade, deceive, or cheat; a cunning trick; an artifice.

Dodger (n.) One who dodges or evades; one who plays fast and loose, or uses tricky devices.

Dodger (n.) A small handbill.

Dodger (n.) See Corndodger.

Dodgery (n.) trickery; artifice.

Dodipate (n.) Alt. of Dodipoll

Dodipoll (n.) A stupid person; a fool; a blockhead.

Dodkin (n.) A doit; a small coin.

Dodman (n.) A snail; also, a snail shell; a hodmandod.

Dodman (n.) Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster.

Dodoes (pl. ) of Dodo

Dodo (n.) A large, extinct bird (Didus ineptus), formerly inhabiting the Island of Mauritius. It had short, half-fledged wings, like those of the ostrich, and a short neck and legs; -- called also dronte. It was related to the pigeons.

Doe (n.) A female deer or antelope; specifically, the female of the fallow deer, of which the male is called a buck. Also applied to the female of other animals, as the rabbit. See the Note under Buck.

Doe (n.) A feat. [Obs.] See Do, n.

Doeglic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the doegling; as, doeglic acid (Chem.), an oily substance resembling oleic acid.

Doegling (n.) The beaked whale (Balaenoptera rostrata), from which doegling oil is obtained.

Doer (v. t. & i.) One who does; one performs or executes; one who is wont and ready to act; an actor; an agent.

Doer (v. t. & i.) An agent or attorney; a factor.

Does () The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do.

Doeskin (n.) The skin of the doe.

Doeskin (n.) A firm woolen cloth with a smooth, soft surface like a doe's skin; -- made for men's wear.

Doffed (imp. & p. p.) of Doff

Doffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doff

Doff (v. t.) To put off, as dress; to divest one's self of; hence, figuratively, to put or thrust away; to rid one's self of.

Doff (v. t.) To strip; to divest; to undress.

Doff (v. i.) To put off dress; to take off the hat.

Doffer (n.) A revolving cylinder, or a vibrating bar with teeth, in a carding machine, which doffs, or strips off, the cotton from the cards.

Dog (n.) A quadruped of the genus Canis, esp. the domestic dog (C. familiaris).

Dog (n.) A mean, worthless fellow; a wretch.

Dog (n.) A fellow; -- used humorously or contemptuously; as, a sly dog; a lazy dog.

Dog (n.) One of the two constellations, Canis Major and Canis Minor, or the Greater Dog and the Lesser Dog. Canis Major contains the Dog Star (Sirius).

Dog (n.) An iron for holding wood in a fireplace; a firedog; an andiron.

Dog (n.) A grappling iron, with a claw or claws, for fastening into wood or other heavy articles, for the purpose of raising or moving them.

Dog (n.) An iron with fangs fastening a log in a saw pit, or on the carriage of a sawmill.

Dog (n.) A piece in machinery acting as a catch or clutch; especially, the carrier of a lathe, also, an adjustable stop to change motion, as in a machine tool.

Dogged (imp. & p. p.) of Dog

Dogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dog

Dog (v. t.) To hunt or track like a hound; to follow insidiously or indefatigably; to chase with a dog or dogs; to worry, as if by dogs; to hound with importunity.

Dogal (a.) Of or pertaining to a doge.

Dogate (n.) The office or dignity of a doge.

Dogbane (n.) A small genus of perennial herbaceous plants, with poisonous milky juice, bearing slender pods pods in pairs.

Dog bee () A male or drone bee.

Dogberry (n.) The berry of the dogwood; -- called also dogcherry.

Dogbolt (n.) The bolt of the cap-square over the trunnion of a cannon.

Dog-brier (n.) The dog-rose.

Dogcart (n.) A light one-horse carriage, commonly two-wheeled, patterned after a cart. The original dogcarts used in England by sportsmen had a box at the back for carrying dogs.

Dog day () Alt. of Dogday

Dogday () One of the dog days.

Dog days () A period of from four to six weeks, in the summer, variously placed by almanac makers between the early part of July and the early part of September; canicular days; -- so called in reference to the rising in ancient times of the Dog Star (Sirius) with the sun. Popularly, the sultry, close part of the summer.

Dogdraw (n.) The act of drawing after, or pursuing, deer with a dog.

Doge (n.) The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa.

Dog-eared (a.) Having the corners of the leaves turned down and soiled by careless or long-continued usage; -- said of a book.

Dogeate (n.) Dogate.

Dogeless (a.) Without a doge.

Dog-faced (a.) Having a face resembling that of a dog.

Dog fancier () One who has an unusual fancy for, or interest in, dogs; also, one who deals in dogs.

Dogfish (n.) A small shark, of many species, of the genera Mustelus, Scyllium, Spinax, etc.

Dogfish (n.) The bowfin (Amia calva). See Bowfin.

Dogfish (n.) The burbot of Lake Erie.

Dog-fox (n.) A male fox. See the Note under Dog, n., 6.

Dog-fox (n.) The Arctic or blue fox; -- a name also applied to species of the genus Cynalopex.

Dogged (a.) Sullen; morose.

Dogged (a.) Sullenly obstinate; obstinately determined or persistent; as, dogged resolution; dogged work.

Doggedly (adv.) In a dogged manner; sullenly; with obstinate resolution.

Doggedness (n.) Sullenness; moroseness.

Doggedness (n.) Sullen or obstinate determination; grim resolution or persistence.

Dogger (n.) A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch.

Dogger (n.) A sort of stone, found in the mines with the true alum rock, chiefly of silica and iron.

Doggerel (a.) Low in style, and irregular in measure; as, doggerel rhymes.

Doggerel (n.) A sort of loose or irregular verse; mean or undignified poetry.

Doggerman (n.) A sailor belonging to a dogger.

Dogget (n.) Docket. See Docket.

Doggish (a.) Like a dog; having the bad qualities of a dog; churlish; growling; brutal.

Doggrel (a. & n.) Same as Doggerel.

Dog-headed (a.) Having a head shaped like that of a dog; -- said of certain baboons.

Dog-hearted (a.) Inhuman; cruel.

Doghole (n.) A place fit only for dogs; a vile, mean habitation or apartment.

dog-legged (a.) Noting a flight of stairs, consisting of two or more straight portions connected by a platform (landing) or platforms, and running in opposite directions without an intervening wellhole.

Dogmas (pl. ) of Dogma

Dogmata (pl. ) of Dogma

Dogma (n.) That which is held as an opinion; a tenet; a doctrine.

Dogma (n.) A formally stated and authoritatively settled doctrine; a definite, established, and authoritative tenet.

Dogma (n.) A doctrinal notion asserted without regard to evidence or truth; an arbitrary dictum.

Dogmatic (n.) One of an ancient sect of physicians who went by general principles; -- opposed to the Empiric.

Dogmatic (a.) Alt. of Dogmatical

Dogmatical (a.) Pertaining to a dogma, or to an established and authorized doctrine or tenet.

Dogmatical (a.) Asserting a thing positively and authoritatively; positive; magisterial; hence, arrogantly authoritative; overbearing.

Dogmatically (adv.) In a dogmatic manner; positively; magisterially.

Dogmaticalness (n.) The quality of being dogmatical; positiveness.

Dogmatician (n.) A dogmatist.

Dogmatics (n.) The science which treats of Christian doctrinal theology.

Dogmatism (n.) The manner or character of a dogmatist; arrogance or positiveness in stating opinion.

Dogmatist (n.) One who dogmatizes; one who speaks dogmatically; a bold and arrogant advancer of principles.

Dogmatized (imp. & p. p.) of Dogmatize

Dogmatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dogmatize

Dogmatize (v. i.) To assert positively; to teach magisterially or with bold and undue confidence; to advance with arrogance.

Dogmatize (v. t.) To deliver as a dogma.

Dogmatizer (n.) One who dogmatizes; a bold asserter; a magisterial teacher.

Dog-rose (n.) A common European wild rose, with single pink or white flowers.

Dog's-bane (n.) See Dogbane.

Dog's-ear (n.) The corner of a leaf, in a book, turned down like the ear of a dog.

Dogship (n.) The character, or individuality, of a dog.

Dogshore (n.) One of several shores used to hold a ship firmly and prevent her moving while the blocks are knocked away before launching.

Dogsick (a.) Sick as a dog sometimes is very sick.

Dogskin (n.) The skin of a dog, or leather made of the skin. Also used adjectively.

Dogsleep (n.) Pretended sleep.

Dogsleep (n.) The fitful naps taken when all hands are kept up by stress.

Dog's-tail grass (n.) A hardy species of British grass (Cynosurus cristatus) which abounds in grass lands, and is well suited for making straw plait; -- called also goldseed.

Dog Star () Sirius, a star of the constellation Canis Major, or the Greater Dog, and the brightest star in the heavens; -- called also Canicula, and, in astronomical charts, / Canis Majoris. See Dog days.

Dog's-tongue (n.) Hound's-tongue.

Dogtie (n.) A cramp.

Dogteeth (pl. ) of Dogtooth

Dogtooth (n.) See Canine tooth, under Canine.

Dogtooth (n.) An ornament common in Gothic architecture, consisting of pointed projections resembling teeth; -- also called tooth ornament.

Dogtrick (n.) A gentle trot, like that of a dog.

Dogvane (n.) A small vane of bunting, feathers, or any other light material, carried at the masthead to indicate the direction of the wind.

Dogwatch (n.) A half watch; a watch of two hours, of which there are two, the first dogwatch from 4 to 6 o'clock, p. m., and the second dogwatch from 6 to 8 o'clock, p. m.

Dog-weary (a.) Extremely weary.

Dogwood (n.) The Cornus, a genus of large shrubs or small trees, the wood of which is exceedingly hard, and serviceable for many purposes.

Dohtren (n. pl.) Daughters.

Doily (n.) A kind of woolen stuff.

Doily (n.) A small napkin, used at table with the fruit, etc.; -- commonly colored and fringed.

Doings (pl. ) of Doing

Doing (n.) Anything done; a deed; an action good or bad; hence, in the plural, conduct; behavior. See Do.

Doit (n.) A small Dutch coin, worth about half a farthing; also, a similar small coin once used in Scotland; hence, any small piece of money.

Doit (n.) A thing of small value; as, I care not a doit.

Doitkin (n.) A very small coin; a doit.

Dokimastic (a.) Docimastic.

Doko (n.) See Lepidosiren.

Dolabra (n.) A rude ancient ax or hatchet, seen in museums.

Dolabriform (a.) Shaped like the head of an ax or hatchet, as some leaves, and also certain organs of some shellfish.

Dolce (adv.) Alt. of Dolcemente

Dolcemente (adv.) Softly; sweetly; with soft, smooth, and delicate execution.

Dolcino (n.) Alt. of Dulcino

Dulcino (n.) A small bassoon, formerly much used.

Doldrums (n. pl.) A part of the ocean near the equator, abounding in calms, squalls, and light, baffling winds, which sometimes prevent all progress for weeks; -- so called by sailors.

Dole (n.) grief; sorrow; lamentation.

Dole (n.) See Dolus.

Dole (n.) Distribution; dealing; apportionment.

Dole (n.) That which is dealt out; a part, share, or portion also, a scanty share or allowance.

Dole (n.) Alms; charitable gratuity or portion.

Dole (n.) A boundary; a landmark.

Dole (n.) A void space left in tillage.

Doled (imp. & p. p.) of Dole

Doling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dole

Dole (v. t.) To deal out in small portions; to distribute, as a dole; to deal out scantily or grudgingly.

Doleful (a.) Full of dole or grief; expressing or exciting sorrow; sorrowful; sad; dismal.

Dolent (a.) Sorrowful.

Dolente (a. & adv.) Plaintively. See Doloroso.

Dolerite (n.) A dark-colored, basic, igneous rock, composed essentially of pyroxene and a triclinic feldspar with magnetic iron. By many authors it is considered equivalent to a coarse-grained basalt.

Doleritic (a.) Of the nature of dolerite; as, much lava is doleritic lava.

Dolesome (a.) Doleful; dismal; gloomy; sorrowful.

Dolf (imp.) of Delve.

Dolichocephalic (a.) Alt. of Dolichocephalous

Dolichocephalous (a.) Having the cranium, or skull, long to its breadth; long-headed; -- opposed to brachycephalic.

Dolichocephaly (n.) Alt. of Dolichocephalism

Dolichocephalism (n.) The quality or condition of being dolichocephalic.

Dolioform (a.) Barrel-shaped, or like a cask in form.

Doliolum (n.) A genus of freeswimming oceanic tunicates, allied to Salpa, and having alternate generations.

Do-little (n.) One who performs little though professing much.

Dolium (n.) A genus of large univalve mollusks, including the partridge shell and tun shells.

Doll (n.) A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl.

Dollar (n.) A silver coin of the United States containing 371.25 grains of silver and 41.25 grains of alloy, that is, having a total weight of 412.5 grains.

Dollar (n.) A gold coin of the United States containing 23.22 grains of gold and 2.58 grains of alloy, that is, having a total weight of 25.8 grains, nine-tenths fine. It is no longer coined.

Dollar (n.) A coin of the same general weight and value, though differing slightly in different countries, current in Mexico, Canada, parts of South America, also in Spain, and several other European countries.

Dollar (n.) The value of a dollar; the unit commonly employed in the United States in reckoning money values.

Dollardee (n.) A species of sunfish (Lepomis pallidus), common in the United States; -- called also blue sunfish, and copper-nosed bream.

Dollman (n.) See Dolman.

Dollies (pl. ) of Dolly

Dolly (n.) A contrivance, turning on a vertical axis by a handle or winch, and giving a circular motion to the ore to be washed; a stirrer.

Dolly (n.) A tool with an indented head for shaping the head of a rivet.

Dolly (n.) In pile driving, a block interposed between the head of the pile and the ram of the driver.

Dolly (n.) A small truck with a single wide roller used for moving heavy beams, columns, etc., in bridge building.

Dolly (n.) A compact, narrow-gauge locomotive used for moving construction trains, switching, etc.

Dolly (n.) A child's mane for a doll.

Dolly Varden () A character in Dickens's novel Barnaby Rudge, a beautiful, lively, and coquettish girl who wore a cherry-colored mantle and cherry-colored ribbons.

Dolly Varden () A style of light, bright-figured dress goods for women; also, a style of dress.

Dolman (n.) A long robe or outer garment, with long sleeves, worn by the Turks.

Dolman (n.) A cloak of a peculiar fashion worn by women.

Dolmen (n.) A cromlech. See Cromlech.

Dolomite (n.) A mineral consisting of the carbonate of lime and magnesia in varying proportions. It occurs in distinct crystals, and in extensive beds as a compact limestone, often crystalline granular, either white or clouded. It includes much of the common white marble. Also called bitter spar.

Dolomitic (a.) Pertaining to dolomite.

Dolomize (v. t.) To convert into dolomite.

Dolor (n.) Pain; grief; distress; anguish.

Doloriferous (a.) Producing pain.

Dolorific (a.) Alt. of Dolorifical

Dolorifical (a.) Causing pain or grief.

Doloroso (a. & adv.) Plaintive; pathetic; -- used adverbially as a musical direction.

Dolorous (a.) Full of grief; sad; sorrowful; doleful; dismal; as, a dolorous object; dolorous discourses.

Dolorous (a.) Occasioning pain or grief; painful.

Dolphin (n.) A cetacean of the genus Delphinus and allied genera (esp. D. delphis); the true dolphin.

Dolphin (n.) The Coryphaena hippuris, a fish of about five feet in length, celebrated for its surprising changes of color when dying. It is the fish commonly known as the dolphin. See Coryphaenoid.

Dolphin (n.) A mass of iron or lead hung from the yardarm, in readiness to be dropped on the deck of an enemy's vessel.

Dolphin (n.) A kind of wreath or strap of plaited cordage.

Dolphin (n.) A spar or buoy held by an anchor and furnished with a ring to which ships may fasten their cables.

Dolphin (n.) A mooring post on a wharf or beach.

Dolphin (n.) A permanent fender around a heavy boat just below the gunwale.

Dolphin (n.) In old ordnance, one of the handles above the trunnions by which the gun was lifted.

Dolphin (n.) A small constellation between Aquila and Pegasus. See Delphinus, n., 2.

Dolphinet (n.) A female dolphin.

Dolt (n.) A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus; a dunce; a dullard.

Dolt (v. i.) To behave foolishly.

Doltish (a.) Doltlike; dull in intellect; stupid; blockish; as, a doltish clown.

Dolus (n.) Evil intent, embracing both malice and fraud. See Culpa.

Dolven (p. p.) of Delve.

-dom () A suffix denoting

-dom () Jurisdiction or property and jurisdiction, dominion, as in kingdom earldom.

-dom () State, condition, or quality of being, as in wisdom, freedom.

Dom (n.) A title anciently given to the pope, and later to other church dignitaries and some monastic orders. See Don, and Dan.

Dom (n.) In Portugal and Brazil, the title given to a member of the higher classes.

Domable (a.) Capable of being tamed; tamable.

Domableness (n.) Tamableness.

Domage (n.) Damage; hurt.

Domage (n.) Subjugation.

Domain (n.) Dominion; empire; authority.

Domain (n.) The territory over which dominion or authority is exerted; the possessions of a sovereign or commonwealth, or the like. Also used figuratively.

Domain (n.) Landed property; estate; especially, the land about the mansion house of a lord, and in his immediate occupancy; demesne.

Domain (n.) Ownership of land; an estate or patrimony which one has in his own right; absolute proprietorship; paramount or sovereign ownership.

Domal (a.) Pertaining to a house.

Domanial (a.) Of or relating to a domain or to domains.

Dome (n.) A building; a house; an edifice; -- used chiefly in poetry.

Dome (n.) A cupola formed on a large scale.

Dome (n.) Any erection resembling the dome or cupola of a building; as the upper part of a furnace, the vertical steam chamber on the top of a boiler, etc.

Dome (n.) A prism formed by planes parallel to a lateral axis which meet above in a horizontal edge, like the roof of a house; also, one of the planes of such a form.

Dome (n.) Decision; judgment; opinion; a court decision.

Domebook (n.) A book said to have been compiled under the direction of King Alfred. It is supposed to have contained the principal maxims of the common law, the penalties for misdemeanors, and the forms of judicial proceedings. Domebook was probably a general name for book of judgments.

Domed (a.) Furnished with a dome; shaped like a dome.

Domesday (n.) A day of judgment. See Doomsday.

Domesmen (pl. ) of Domesman

Domesman (n.) A judge; an umpire.

Domestic (a.) Of or pertaining to one's house or home, or one's household or family; relating to home life; as, domestic concerns, life, duties, cares, happiness, worship, servants.

Domestic (a.) Of or pertaining to a nation considered as a family or home, or to one's own country; intestine; not foreign; as, foreign wars and domestic dissensions.

Domestic (a.) Remaining much at home; devoted to home duties or pleasures; as, a domestic man or woman.

Domestic (a.) Living in or near the habitations of man; domesticated; tame as distinguished from wild; as, domestic animals.

Domestic (a.) Made in one's own house, nation, or country; as, domestic manufactures, wines, etc.

Domestic (n.) One who lives in the family of an other, as hired household assistant; a house servant.

Domestic (n.) Articles of home manufacture, especially cotton goods.

Domestical (a.) Domestic.

Domestical (n.) A family; a household.

Domestically (adv.) In a domestic manner; privately; with reference to domestic affairs.

Domesticant (a.) Forming part of the same family.

Domesticated (imp. & p. p.) of Domesticate

Domesticating. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Domesticate

Domesticate (a.) To make domestic; to habituate to home life; as, to domesticate one's self.

Domesticate (a.) To cause to be, as it were, of one's family or country; as, to domesticate a foreign custom or word.

Domesticate (a.) To tame or reclaim from a wild state; as, to domesticate wild animals; to domesticate a plant.

Domestication (n.) The act of domesticating, or accustoming to home; the action of taming wild animals.

Domesticator (n.) One who domesticates.

Domesticity (n.) The state of being domestic; domestic character; household life.

Domett (n.) A kind of baize of which the ward is cotton and the weft woolen.

Domeykite (n.) A massive mineral of tin-white or steel-gray color, an arsenide of copper.

Domical (a.) Relating to, or shaped like, a dome.

Domicile (n.) An abode or mansion; a place of permanent residence, either of an individual or a family.

Domicile (n.) A residence at a particular place accompanied with an intention to remain there for an unlimited time; a residence accepted as a final abode.

Domiciled (imp. & p. p.) of Domicile

Domiciling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Domicile

Domicile (v. t.) To establish in a fixed residence, or a residence that constitutes habitancy; to domiciliate.

Domiciliar (n.) A member of a household; a domestic.

Domicillary (a.) Of or pertaining to a domicile, or the residence of a person or family.

Domiciliated (imp. & p. p.) of Domiciliate

Domiciliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Domiciliate

Domiciliate (v. t.) To establish in a permanent residence; to domicile.

Domiciliate (v. t.) To domesticate.

Domiciliation (n.) The act of domiciliating; permanent residence; inhabitancy.

Domiculture (n.) The art of house-keeping, cookery, etc.

Domify (v. t.) To divide, as the heavens, into twelve houses. See House, in astrological sense.

Domify (v. t.) To tame; to domesticate.

Domina (n.) Lady; a lady; -- a title formerly given to noble ladies who held a barony in their own right.

Dominance (n.) Alt. of Dominancy

Dominancy (n.) Predominance; ascendency; authority.

Dominant (a.) Ruling; governing; prevailing; controlling; predominant; as, the dominant party, church, spirit, power.

Dominant (n.) The fifth tone of the scale; thus G is the dominant of C, A of D, and so on.

Dominated (imp. & p. p.) of Dominate

Dominating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dominate

Dominate (v. t.) To predominate over; to rule; to govern.

Dominate (v. i.) To be dominant.

Domination (n.) The act of dominating; exercise of power in ruling; dominion; supremacy; authority; often, arbitrary or insolent sway.

Domination (n.) A ruling party; a party in power.

Domination (n.) A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaning given by the schoolmen.

Dominative (a.) Governing; ruling; imperious.

Dominator (n.) A ruler or ruling power.

Domine (n.) A name given to a pastor of the Reformed Church. The word is also applied locally in the United States, in colloquial speech, to any clergyman.

Domine (n.) A West Indian fish (Epinula magistralis), of the family Trichiuridae. It is a long-bodied, voracious fish.

Domineered (imp. & p. p.) of Domineer

Domineering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Domineer

Domineer (v. t.) To rule with insolence or arbitrary sway; to play the master; to be overbearing; to tyrannize; to bluster; to swell with conscious superiority or haughtiness; -- often with over; as, to domineer over dependents.

Domineering (a.) Ruling arrogantly; overbearing.

Dominical (a.) Indicating, or pertaining to, the Lord's day, or Sunday.

Dominical (a.) Relating to, or given by, our Lord; as, the dominical (or Lord's) prayer.

Dominical (n.) The Lord's day or Sunday; also, the Lord's prayer.

Dominican (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Dominic (Dominic de Guzman), or to the religions communities named from him.

Dominican (n.) One of an order of mendicant monks founded by Dominic de Guzman, in 1215. A province of the order was established in England in 1221. The first foundation in the United States was made in 1807. The Master of the Sacred Palace at Rome is always a Dominican friar. The Dominicans are called also preaching friars, friars preachers, black friars (from their black cloak), brothers of St. Mary, and in France, Jacobins.

Dominicide (n.) The act of killing a master.

Dominicide (n.) One who kills his master.

Dominie (n.) A schoolmaster; a pedagogue.

Dominie (n.) A clergyman. See Domine, 1.

Dominion (n.) Sovereign or supreme authority; the power of governing and controlling; independent right of possession, use, and control; sovereignty; supremacy.

Dominion (n.) Superior prominence; predominance; ascendency.

Dominion (n.) That which is governed; territory over which authority is exercised; the tract, district, or county, considered as subject; as, the dominions of a king. Also used figuratively; as, the dominion of the passions.

Dominion (n.) A supposed high order of angels; dominations. See Domination, 3.

Dominos (pl. ) of Domino

Dominoes (pl. ) of Domino

Domino (n.) A kind of hood worn by the canons of a cathedral church; a sort of amice.

Domino (n.) A mourning veil formerly worn by women.

Domino (n.) A kind of mask; particularly, a half mask worn at masquerades, to conceal the upper part of the face. Dominos were formerly worn by ladies in traveling.

Domino (n.) A costume worn as a disguise at masquerades, consisting of a robe with a hood adjustable at pleasure.

Domino (n.) A person wearing a domino.

Domino (n.) A game played by two or more persons, with twenty-eight pieces of wood, bone, or ivory, of a flat, oblong shape, plain at the back, but on the face divided by a line in the middle, and either left blank or variously dotted after the manner of dice. The game is played by matching the spots or the blank of an unmatched half of a domino already played

Domino (n.) One of the pieces with which the game of dominoes is played.

Domini (pl. ) of Dominus

Dominus (n.) Master; sir; -- a title of respect formerly applied to a knight or a clergyman, and sometimes to the lord of a manor.

Domitable (a.) That can be tamed.

Domite (n.) A grayish variety of trachyte; -- so called from the Puy-de-Dome in Auvergne, France, where it is found.

Don (n.) Sir; Mr; Signior; -- a title in Spain, formerly given to noblemen and gentlemen only, but now common to all classes.

Don (n.) A grand personage, or one making pretension to consequence; especially, the head of a college, or one of the fellows at the English universities.

Donned (imp. & p. p.) of Don

Donning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Don

Don (v. t.) To put on; to dress in; to invest one's self with.

Doa (n.) Lady; mistress; madam; -- a title of respect used in Spain, prefixed to the Christian name of a lady.

Donable (a.) Capable of being donated or given.

Donary (n.) A thing given to a sacred use.

Donat (n.) A grammar.

Donatary (n.) See Donatory.

Donated (imp. & p. p.) of Donate

Donating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Donate

Donate (v. t.) To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousand dollars to a college.

Donation (n.) The act of giving or bestowing; a grant.

Donation (n.) That which is given as a present; that which is transferred to another gratuitously; a gift.

Donation (n.) The act or contract by which a person voluntarily transfers the title to a thing of which be is the owner, from himself to another, without any consideration, as a free gift.

Donatism (n.) The tenets of the Donatists.

Donatist (n.) A follower of Donatus, the leader of a body of North African schismatics and purists, who greatly disturbed the church in the 4th century. They claimed to be the true church.

Donatistic (a.) Pertaining to Donatism.

Donative (n.) A gift; a largess; a gratuity; a present.

Donative (n.) A benefice conferred on a person by the founder or patron, without either presentation or institution by the ordinary, or induction by his orders. See the Note under Benefice, n., 3.

Donative (a.) Vested or vesting by donation; as, a donative advowson.

Donator (n.) One who makes a gift; a donor; a giver.

Donatory (n.) A donee of the crown; one the whom, upon certain condition, escheated property is made over.

Do-naught (n.) A lazy, good-for-nothing fellow.

Donax (n.) A canelike grass of southern Europe (Arundo Donax), used for fishing rods, etc.

Doncella (n.) A handsome fish of Florida and the West Indies (Platyglossus radiatus). The name is applied also to the ladyfish (Harpe rufa) of the same region.

Done () p. p. from Do, and formerly the infinitive.

Done (infinitive.) Performed; executed; finished.

Done (infinitive.) It is done or agreed; let it be a match or bargain; -- used elliptically.

Done (a.) Given; executed; issued; made public; -- used chiefly in the clause giving the date of a proclamation or public act.

Donee (n.) The person to whom a gift or donation is made.

Donee (n.) Anciently, one to whom lands were given; in later use, one to whom lands and tenements are given in tail; in modern use, one on whom a power is conferred for execution; -- sometimes called the appointor.

Donet (n.) Same as Donat. Piers Plowman.

Doni (n.) A clumsy craft, having one mast with a long sail, used for trading purposes on the coasts of Coromandel and Ceylon.

Doniferous (a.) Bearing gifts.

Donjon (n.) The chief tower, also called the keep; a massive tower in ancient castles, forming the strongest part of the fortifications. See Illust. of Castle.

Donkeys (pl. ) of Donkey

Donkey (n.) An ass; or (less frequently) a mule.

Donkey (n.) A stupid or obstinate fellow; an ass.

Donna (n.) A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy.

Donnat (n.) See Do-naught.

Donnism (n) Self-importance; loftiness of carriage.

Donor (n.) One who gives or bestows; one who confers anything gratuitously; a benefactor.

Donor (n.) One who grants an estate; in later use, one who confers a power; -- the opposite of donee.

Do-nothing (a.) Doing nothing; inactive; idle; lazy; as, a do-nothing policy.

Do-nothingism (n.) Alt. of Do-nothingness

Do-nothingness (n.) Inactivity; habitual sloth; idleness.

Donship (n.) The quality or rank of a don, gentleman, or knight.

Donzel (n.) A young squire, or knight's attendant; a page.

Doo (n.) A dove.

Doob grass () A perennial, creeping grass (Cynodon dactylon), highly prized, in Hindostan, as food for cattle, and acclimated in the United States.

Doodle (n.) A trifler; a simple fellow.

Doodlesack (n.) The Scotch bagpipe.

Doole (n.) Sorrow; dole.

Doolies (pl. ) of Dooly

Dooly (n.) A kind of litter suspended from men's shoulders, for carrying persons or things; a palanquin.

Doom (v. t.) Judgment; judicial sentence; penal decree; condemnation.

Doom (v. t.) That to which one is doomed or sentenced; destiny or fate, esp. unhappy destiny; penalty.

Doom (v. t.) Ruin; death.

Doom (v. t.) Discriminating opinion or judgment; discrimination; discernment; decision.

Doomed (imp. & p. p.) of Doom

Dooming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doom

Doom (v. t.) To judge; to estimate or determine as a judge.

Doom (v. t.) To pronounce sentence or judgment on; to condemn; to consign by a decree or sentence; to sentence; as, a criminal doomed to chains or death.

Doom (v. t.) To ordain as penalty; hence, to mulct or fine.

Doom (v. t.) To assess a tax upon, by estimate or at discretion.

Doom (v. t.) To destine; to fix irrevocably the destiny or fate of; to appoint, as by decree or by fate.

Doomage (n.) A penalty or fine for neglect.

Doomful (a.) Full of condemnation or destructive power.

Doom palm () A species of palm tree (Hyphaene Thebaica), highly valued for the fibrous pulp of its fruit, which has the flavor of gingerbread, and is largely eaten in Egypt and Abyssinia.

Doomsday (n.) A day of sentence or condemnation; day of death.

Doomsday (n.) The day of the final judgment.

Doomsman (n.) A judge; an umpire.

Doomster (n.) Same as Dempster.

Door (n.) An opening in the wall of a house or of an apartment, by which to go in and out; an entrance way.

Door (n.) The frame or barrier of boards, or other material, usually turning on hinges, by which an entrance way into a house or apartment is closed and opened.

Door (n.) Passage; means of approach or access.

Door (n.) An entrance way, but taken in the sense of the house or apartment to which it leads.

Doorcase (n.) The surrounding frame into which a door shuts.

Doorcheek (n.) The jamb or sidepiece of a door.

Doorga (n.) A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with ten arms.

Dooring (n.) The frame of a door.

Doorkeeper (n.) One who guards the entrance of a house or apartment; a porter; a janitor.

Doorless (a.) Without a door.

Doornail (n.) The nail or knob on which in ancient doors the knocker struck; -- hence the old saying, As dead as a doornail.

Doorplane (n.) A plane on a door, giving the name, and sometimes the employment, of the occupant.

Doorpost (n.) The jamb or sidepiece of a doorway.

Doorsill (n.) The sill or threshold of a door.

Doorstead (n.) Entrance or place of a door.

Doorstep (n.) The stone or plank forming a step before an outer door.

Doorstone (n.) The stone forming a threshold.

Doorstop (n.) The block or strip of wood or similar material which stops, at the right place, the shutting of a door.

Doorway (n.) The passage of a door; entrance way into a house or a room.

Dooryard (n.) A yard in front of a house or around the door of a house.

Dop (n.) Alt. of Doop

Doop (n.) A little copper cup in which a diamond is held while being cut.

Dop (v. i.) To dip.

Dop (n.) A dip; a low courtesy.

Dopper (n.) An Anabaptist or Baptist.

Dopplerite (n.) A brownish black native hydrocarbon occurring in elastic or jellylike masses.

Doquet (n.) A warrant. See Docket.

Dor (n.) A large European scaraboid beetle (Geotrupes stercorarius), which makes a droning noise while flying. The name is also applied to allied American species, as the June bug. Called also dorr, dorbeetle, or dorrbeetle, dorbug, dorrfly, and buzzard clock.

Dor (n.) A trick, joke, or deception.

Dor (v. t.) To make a fool of; to deceive.

Dorado (n.) A southern constellation, within which is the south pole of the ecliptic; -- called also sometimes Xiphias, or the Swordfish.

Dorado (n.) A large, oceanic fish of the genus Coryphaena.

Dorbeetle (n.) See 1st Dor.

Doree (n.) A European marine fish (Zeus faber), of a yellow color. See Illust. of John Doree.

Doretree (n.) A doorpost.

Dorhawk (n.) The European goatsucker; -- so called because it eats the dor beetle. See Goatsucker.

Dorian (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks of Doris; Doric; as, a Dorian fashion.

Dorian (a.) Same as Doric, 3.

Dorian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Doris in Greece.

Doric (a.) Pertaining to Doris, in ancient Greece, or to the Dorians; as, the Doric dialect.

Doric (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the oldest and simplest of the three orders of architecture used by the Greeks, but ranked as second of the five orders adopted by the Romans. See Abacus, Capital, Order.

Doric (a.) Of or relating to one of the ancient Greek musical modes or keys. Its character was adapted both to religions occasions and to war.

Doric (n.) The Doric dialect.

Doricism (n.) A Doric phrase or idiom.

Doris (n.) A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks having a wreath of branchiae on the back.

Dorism (n.) A Doric phrase or idiom.

Dorking fowl () One of a breed of large-bodied domestic fowls, having five toes, or the hind toe double. There are several strains, as the white, gray, and silver-gray. They are highly esteemed for the table.

Dormancy (n.) The state of being dormant; quiescence; abeyance.

Dormant (a.) Sleeping; as, a dormant animal; hence, not in action or exercise; quiescent; at rest; in abeyance; not disclosed, asserted, or insisted on; as, dormant passions; dormant claims or titles.

Dormant (a.) In a sleeping posture; as, a lion dormant; -- distinguished from couchant.

Dormant (a.) A large beam in the roof of a house upon which portions of the other timbers rest or  sleep.

Dormer (n.) Alt. of Dormer window

Dormer window (n.) A window pierced in a roof, and so set as to be vertical while the roof slopes away from it. Also, the gablet, or houselike structure, in which it is contained.

Dormitive (a.) Causing sleep; as, the dormitive properties of opium.

Dormitive (n.) A medicine to promote sleep; a soporific; an opiate.

Dormitories (pl. ) of Dormitory

Dormitory (n.) A sleeping room, or a building containing a series of sleeping rooms; a sleeping apartment capable of containing many beds; esp., one connected with a college or boarding school.

Dormitory (n.) A burial place.

Dormice (pl. ) of Dormouse

Dormouse (n.) A small European rodent of the genus Myoxus, of several species. They live in trees and feed on nuts, acorns, etc.; -- so called because they are usually torpid in winter.

Dorn (n.) A British ray; the thornback.

Dornick (n.) Alt. of Dornock

Dornock (n.) A coarse sort of damask, originally made at Tournay (in Flemish, Doornick), Belgium, and used for hangings, carpets, etc. Also, a stout figured linen manufactured in Scotland.

Dorp (n.) A hamlet.

Dorr (n.) The dorbeetle; also, a drone or an idler. See 1st Dor.

Dorr (v. t.) To deceive. [Obs.] See Dor, v. t.

Dorr (v. t.) To deafen with noise.

Dorrfly (n.) See 1st Dor.

Dorrhawk (n.) See Dorhawk.

Dorsad (adv.) Toward the dorsum or back; on the dorsal side; dorsally.

Dorsal (a.) Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of an animal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsal fin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed to ventral.

Dorsal (a.) Pertaining to the surface naturally inferior, as of a leaf.

Dorsal (a.) Pertaining to the surface naturally superior, as of a creeping hepatic moss.

Dorsal (a.) A hanging, usually of rich stuff, at the back of a throne, or of an altar, or in any similar position.

Dorsale (n.) Same as Dorsal, n.

Dorsally (adv.) On, or toward, the dorsum, or back; on the dorsal side of; dorsad.

Dorse (n.) Same as dorsal, n.

Dorse (n.) The back of a book.

Dorse (n.) The Baltic or variable cod (Gadus callarias), by some believed to be the young of the common codfish.

Dorsel (n.) A pannier.

Dorsel (n.) Same as Dorsal, n.

Dorser (n.) See Dosser.

dorsibranchiata (n. pl.) A division of chaetopod annelids in which the branchiae are along the back, on each side, or on the parapodia. [See Illusts. under Annelida and Chaetopoda.]

Dorsibranchiate (a.) Having branchiae along the back; belonging to the Dorsibranchiata.

Dorsibranchiate (n.) One of the Dorsibranchiata.

Dorsiferous () Bearing, or producing, on the back; -- applied to ferns which produce seeds on the back of the leaf, and to certain Batrachia, the ova of which become attached to the skin of the back of the parent, where they develop; dorsiparous.

Dorsimeson (n.) (Anat.) See Meson.

Dorsiparous (a.) Same as Dorsiferous.

Dorsiventral (a.) Having distinct upper and lower surfaces, as most common leaves. The leaves of the iris are not dorsiventral.

Dorsiventral (a.) See Dorsoventral.

Dorsoventral (a.) From the dorsal to the ventral side of an animal; as, the dorsoventral axis.

Dorsum (n.) The ridge of a hill.

Dorsum (n.) The back or dorsal region of an animal; the upper side of an appendage or part; as, the dorsum of the tongue.

Dortour (n.) Alt. of Dorture

Dorture (n.) A dormitory.

Dories (pl. ) of Dory

Dory (n.) A European fish. See Doree, and John Doree.

Dory (n.) The American wall-eyed perch; -- called also dore. See Pike perch.

Dories (pl. ) of Dory

Dory (n.) A small, strong, flat-bottomed rowboat, with sharp prow and flaring sides.

Doryphora (n.) A genus of plant-eating beetles, including the potato beetle. See Potato beetle.

Doryphoros (n.) A spear bearer; a statue of a man holding a spear or in the attitude of a spear bearer. Several important sculptures of this subject existed in antiquity, copies of which remain to us.

Dose (n.) The quantity of medicine given, or prescribed to be taken, at one time.

Dose (n.) A sufficient quantity; a portion; as much as one can take, or as falls to one to receive.

Dose (n.) Anything nauseous that one is obliged to take; a disagreeable portion thrust upon one.

Dosed (imp. & p. p.) of Dose

dosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dose

Dose (n.) To proportion properly (a medicine), with reference to the patient or the disease; to form into suitable doses.

Dose (n.) To give doses to; to medicine or physic to; to give potions to, constantly and without need.

Dose (n.) To give anything nauseous to.

Dosel (n.) Same as Dorsal, n.

Dosology (n.) Posology.

Dossel (n.) Same as Dorsal, n.

Dosser (n.) A pannier, or basket.

Dosser (n.) A hanging tapestry; a dorsal.

Dossil (n.) A small ovoid or cylindrical roil or pledget of lint, for keeping a sore, wound, etc., open; a tent.

Dossil (n.) A roll of cloth for wiping off the face of a copperplate, leaving the ink in the engraved lines.

Dost (2d pers. sing. pres.) of Do.

Dot (n.) A marriage portion; dowry.

Dot (n.) A small point or spot, made with a pen or other pointed instrument; a speck, or small mark.

Dot (n.) Anything small and like a speck comparatively; a small portion or specimen; as, a dot of a child.

Dotted (imp. & p. p.) of Dot

Dotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dot

Dot (v. t.) To mark with dots or small spots; as, to dot a line.

Dot (v. t.) To mark or diversify with small detached objects; as, a landscape dotted with cottages.

Dot (v. i.) To make dots or specks.

Dotage (v. i.) Feebleness or imbecility of understanding or mind, particularly in old age; the childishness of old age; senility; as, a venerable man, now in his dotage.

Dotage (v. i.) Foolish utterance; drivel.

Dotage (v. i.) Excessive fondness; weak and foolish affection.

Dotal (a.) Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion; constituting dower, or comprised in it.

Dotant (n.) A dotard.

Dotard (v. i.) One whose mind is impaired by age; one in second childhood.

Dotardly (a.) Foolish; weak.

Dotary (n.) A dotard's weakness; dotage.

Dotation (n.) The act of endowing, or bestowing a marriage portion on a woman.

Dotation (n.) Endowment; establishment of funds for support, as of a hospital or eleemosynary corporation.

Dote (n.) A marriage portion. [Obs.] See 1st Dot, n.

Dote (n.) Natural endowments.

Doted (imp. & p. p.) of Dote

Doting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dote

Dote (v. i.) To act foolishly.

Dote (v. i.) To be weak-minded, silly, or idiotic; to have the intellect impaired, especially by age, so that the mind wanders or wavers; to drivel.

Dote (v. i.) To be excessively or foolishly fond; to love to excess; to be weakly affectionate; -- with on or upon; as, the mother dotes on her child.

Dote (n.) An imbecile; a dotard.

Doted (a.) Stupid; foolish.

Doted (a.) Half-rotten; as, doted wood.

Dotehead (n.) A dotard.

Doter (n.) One who dotes; a man whose understanding is enfeebled by age; a dotard.

Doter (n.) One excessively fond, or weak in love.

Dotery (n.) The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel.

Doth (3d pers. sing. pres.) of Do.

Doting (a.) That dotes; silly; excessively fond.

Dotish (a.) Foolish; weak; imbecile.

Dottard (n.) An old, decayed tree.

Dotted (a.) Marked with, or made of, dots or small spots; diversified with small, detached objects.

Dotterel (a.) Decayed.

Dotterel (v. i.) A European bird of the Plover family (Eudromias, / Charadrius, morinellus). It is tame and easily taken, and is popularly believed to imitate the movements of the fowler.

Dotterel (v. i.) A silly fellow; a dupe; a gull.

Dotting pen () See under Pun.

Dottrel (n.) See Dotterel.

Doty (a.) Half-rotten; as, doty timber.

Douane (n.) A customhouse.

Douanier (n.) An officer of the French customs.

Douar (n.) A village composed of Arab tents arranged in streets.

Douay Bible () A translation of the Scriptures into the English language for the use of English-speaking Roman Catholics; -- done from the Latin Vulgate by English scholars resident in France. The New Testament portion was published at Rheims, A. D. 1582, the Old Testament at Douai, A. D. 1609-10. Various revised editions have since been published.

Doub grass () Doob grass.

Double (a.) Twofold; multiplied by two; increased by its equivalent; made twice as large or as much, etc.

Double (a.) Being in pairs; presenting two of a kind, or two in a set together; coupled.

Double (a.) Divided into two; acting two parts, one openly and the other secretly; equivocal; deceitful; insincere.

Double (a.) Having the petals in a flower considerably increased beyond the natural number, usually as the result of cultivation and the expense of the stamens, or stamens and pistils. The white water lily and some other plants have their blossoms naturally double.

Double (adv.) Twice; doubly.

Doubled (imp. & p. p.) of Double

Doubling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Double

Double (a.) To increase by adding an equal number, quantity, length, value, or the like; multiply by two; to double a sum of money; to double a number, or length.

Double (a.) To make of two thicknesses or folds by turning or bending together in the middle; to fold one part upon another part of; as, to double the leaf of a book, and the like; to clinch, as the fist; -- often followed by up; as, to double up a sheet of paper or cloth.

Double (a.) To be the double of; to exceed by twofold; to contain or be worth twice as much as.

Double (a.) To pass around or by; to march or sail round, so as to reverse the direction of motion.

Double (a.) To unite, as ranks or files, so as to form one from each two.

Double (v. i.) To be increased to twice the sum, number, quantity, length, or value; to increase or grow to twice as much.

Double (v. i.) To return upon one's track; to turn and go back over the same ground, or in an opposite direction.

Double (v. i.) To play tricks; to use sleights; to play false.

Double (v. i.) To set up a word or words a second time by mistake; to make a doublet.

Double (n.) Twice as much; twice the number, sum, quantity, length, value, and the like.

Double (n.) Among compositors, a doublet (see Doublet, 2.); among pressmen, a sheet that is twice pulled, and blurred.

Double (n.) That which is doubled over or together; a doubling; a plait; a fold.

Double (n.) A turn or circuit in running to escape pursues; hence, a trick; a shift; an artifice.

Double (n.) Something precisely equal or counterpart to another; a counterpart. Hence, a wraith.

Double (n.) A player or singer who prepares to take the part of another player in his absence; a substitute.

Double (n.) Double beer; strong beer.

Double (n.) A feast in which the antiphon is doubled, hat is, said twice, before and after the Psalms, instead of only half being said, as in simple feasts.

Double (n.) A game between two pairs of players; as, a first prize for doubles.

Double (n.) An old term for a variation, as in Bach's Suites.

Double-acting (a.) Acting or operating in two directions or with both motions; producing a twofold result; as, a double-acting engine or pump.

Double-bank (v. t.) To row by rowers sitting side by side in twos on a bank or thwart.

Double-banked (a.) Applied to a kind of rowing in which the rowers sit side by side in twos, a pair of oars being worked from each bank or thwart.

Double-barreled (a.) Alt. of -barrelled

-barrelled (a.) Having two barrels; -- applied to a gun.

Double-beat valve () See under Valve.

Double-breasted (a.) Folding or lapping over on the breast, with a row of buttons and buttonholes on each side; as, a double-breasted coat.

Double-charge (v. t.) To load with a double charge, as of gunpowder.

Double-charge (v. t.) To overcharge.

Double dealer () One who practices double dealing; a deceitful, trickish person.

Double dealing () False or deceitful dealing. See Double dealing, under Dealing.

Double-decker (n.) A man-of-war having two gun decks.

Double-decker (n.) A public conveyance, as a street car, with seats on the roof.

Double-dye (v. t.) To dye again or twice over.

Double-dyed (a.) Dyed twice; thoroughly or intensely colored; hence; firmly fixed in opinions or habits; as, a double-dyed villain.

Double-ender (n.) A vessel capable of moving in either direction, having bow and rudder at each end.

Double-ender (n.) A locomotive with pilot at each end.

Double-entendre (n.) A word or expression admitting of a double interpretation, one of which is often obscure or indelicate.

Double-eyed (a.) Having a deceitful look.

Double-faced (a.) Having two faces designed for use; as, a double-faced hammer.

Double-faced (a.) Deceitful; hypocritical; treacherous.

Double first () A degree of the first class both in classics and mathematics.

Double first () One who gains at examinations the highest honor both in the classics and the mathematics.

Double-handed (a.) Having two hands.

Double-handed (a.) Deceitful; deceptive.

Double-headed (a.) Having two heads; bicipital.

Doublehearted (a.) Having a false heart; deceitful; treacherous.

Double-hung (a.) Having both sashes hung with weights and cords; -- said of a window.

Double-lock (v. t.) To lock with two bolts; to fasten with double security.

Double-milled (a.) Twice milled or fulled, to render more compact or fine; -- said of cloth; as, double-milled kerseymere.

Doubleminded (a.) Having different minds at different times; unsettled; undetermined.

Doubleness (n.) The state of being double or doubled.

Doubleness (n.) Duplicity; insincerity.

Double-quick (a.) Of, or performed in, the fastest time or step in marching, next to the run; as, a double-quick step or march.

Double-quick (n.) Double-quick time, step, or march.

Double-quick (v. i. & t.) To move, or cause to move, in double-quick time.

Doubler (n.) One who, or that which, doubles.

Doubler (n.) An instrument for augmenting a very small quantity of electricity, so as to render it manifest by sparks or the electroscope.

Double-ripper (n.) A kind of coasting sled, made of two sleds fastened together with a board, one before the other.

Double-shade (v. t.) To double the natural darkness of (a place).

Doublet (a.) Two of the same kind; a pair; a couple.

Doublet (a.) A word or words unintentionally doubled or set up a second time.

Doublet (a.) A close-fitting garment for men, covering the body from the neck to the waist or a little below. It was worn in Western Europe from the 15th to the 17th century.

Doublet (a.) A counterfeit gem, composed of two pieces of crystal, with a color them, and thus giving the appearance of a naturally colored gem. Also, a piece of paste or glass covered by a veneer of real stone.

Doublet (a.) An arrangement of two lenses for a microscope, designed to correct spherical aberration and chromatic dispersion, thus rendering the image of an object more clear and distinct.

Doublet (a.) Two dice, each of which, when thrown, has the same number of spots on the face lying uppermost; as, to throw doublets.

Doublet (a.) A game somewhat like backgammon.

Doublet (a.) One of two or more words in the same language derived by different courses from the same original from; as, crypt and grot are doublets; also, guard and ward; yard and garden; abridge and abbreviate, etc.

Doublethreaded (a.) Consisting of two threads twisted together; using two threads.

Doublethreaded (a.) Having two screw threads instead of one; -- said of a screw in which the pitch is equal to twice the distance between the centers of adjacent threads.

Double-tongue (n.) Deceit; duplicity.

Double-tongued (a.) Making contrary declarations on the same subject; deceitful.

Double-tonguing (n.) A peculiar action of the tongue by flute players in articulating staccato notes; also, the rapid repetition of notes in cornet playing.

Doubletree (n.) The bar, or crosspiece, of a carriage, to which the singletrees are attached.

Doublets (n. pl.) See Doublet, 6 and 7.

Doubling (n.) The act of one that doubles; a making double; reduplication; also, that which is doubled.

Doubling (n.) A turning and winding; as, the doubling of a hunted hare; shift; trick; artifice.

Doubling (n.) The lining of the mantle borne about the shield or escutcheon.

Doubling (n.) The process of redistilling spirits, to improve the strength and flavor.

Doubloon (a.) A Spanish gold coin, no longer issued, varying in value at different times from over fifteen dollars to about five. See Doblon in Sup.

Doubly (adv.) In twice the quantity; to twice the degree; as, doubly wise or good; to be doubly sensible of an obligation.

Doubly (adv.) Deceitfully.

Dou/ted (imp. & p. p.) of Doubt

Doubting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doubt

Doubt (v. i.) To waver in opinion or judgment; to be in uncertainty as to belief respecting anything; to hesitate in belief; to be undecided as to the truth of the negative or the affirmative proposition; to b e undetermined.

Doubt (v. i.) To suspect; to fear; to be apprehensive.

Doubt (v. t.) To question or hold questionable; to withhold assent to; to hesitate to believe, or to be inclined not to believe; to withhold confidence from; to distrust; as, I have heard the story, but I doubt the truth of it.

Doubt (v. t.) To suspect; to fear; to be apprehensive of.

Doubt (v. t.) To fill with fear; to affright.

Doubt (v. i.) A fluctuation of mind arising from defect of knowledge or evidence; uncertainty of judgment or mind; unsettled state of opinion concerning the reality of an event, or the truth of an assertion, etc.; hesitation.

Doubt (v. i.) Uncertainty of condition.

Doubt (v. i.) Suspicion; fear; apprehension; dread.

Doubt (v. i.) Difficulty expressed or urged for solution; point unsettled; objection.

Doubtable (a.) Capable of being doubted; questionable.

Doubtable (a.) Worthy of being feared; redoubtable.

Doubtance (n.) State of being in doubt; uncertainty; doubt.

Doubter (n.) One who doubts; one whose opinion is unsettled; one who scruples.

Doubtful (a.) Not settled in opinion; undetermined; wavering; hesitating in belief; also used, metaphorically, of the body when its action is affected by such a state of mind; as, we are doubtful of a fact, or of the propriety of a measure.

Doubtful (a.) Admitting of doubt; not obvious, clear, or certain; questionable; not decided; not easy to be defined, classed, or named; as, a doubtful case, hue, claim, title, species, and the like.

Doubtful (a.) Characterized by ambiguity; dubious; as, a doubtful expression; a doubtful phrase.

Doubtful (a.) Of uncertain issue or event.

Doubtful (a.) Fearful; apprehensive; suspicious.

Doubtfully (adv.) In a doubtful manner.

Doubtfulness (n.) State of being doubtful.

Doubtfulness (n.) Uncertainty of meaning; ambiguity; indefiniteness.

Doubtfulness (n.) Uncertainty of event or issue.

Doubting (a.) That is uncertain; that distrusts or hesitates; having doubts.

Doubtless (a.) Free from fear or suspicion.

Doubtless (adv.) Undoubtedly; without doubt.

Doubtlessly (adv.) Unquestionably.

Doubtous (a.) Doubtful.

Douc (n.) A monkey (Semnopithecus nemaeus), remarkable for its varied and brilliant colors. It is a native of Cochin China.

Douce (a.) Sweet; pleasant.

Douce (a.) Sober; prudent; sedate; modest.

Doucepere (n.) One of the twelve peers of France, companions of Charlemagne in war.

Doucet (n.) Alt. of Dowset

Dowset (n.) A custard.

Dowset (n.) A dowcet, or deep's testicle.

Douceur (n.) Gentleness and sweetness of manner; agreeableness.

Douceur (n.) A gift for service done or to be done; an honorarium; a present; sometimes, a bribe.

Douche (n.) A jet or current of water or vapor directed upon some part of the body to benefit it medicinally; a douche bath.

Douche (n.) A syringe.

Doucine (n.) Same as Cyma/recta, under Cyma.

Doucker (v. t.) A grebe or diver; -- applied also to the golden-eye, pochard, scoter, and other ducks.

Dough (n.) Paste of bread; a soft mass of moistened flour or meal, kneaded or unkneaded, but not yet baked; as, to knead dough.

Dough (n.) Anything of the consistency of such paste.

Dough-baked (a.) Imperfectly baked; hence, not brought to perfection; unfinished; also, of weak or dull understanding.

Doughbird (n.) The Eskimo curlew (Numenius borealis). See Curlew.

Doughface (n.) A contemptuous nickname for a timid, yielding politician, or one who is easily molded.

Dough-faced (a.) Easily molded; pliable.

Doughfaceism (n.) The character of a doughface; truckling pliability.

Doughiness (n.) The quality or state of being doughy.

Dough-kneaded (a.) Like dough; soft.

Doughnut (n.) A small cake (usually sweetened) fried in a kettle of boiling lard.

Doughtily (adv.) In a doughty manner.

Doughtiness (n.) The quality of being doughty; valor; bravery.

Doughtren (n. pl.) Daughters.

Doughty (superl.) Able; strong; valiant; redoubtable; as, a doughty hero.

Doughy (a.) Like dough; soft and heavy; pasty; crude; flabby and pale; as, a doughy complexion.

Doulocracy (n.) A government by slaves.

Doum palm () See Doom palm.

Doupe (n.) The carrion crow.

Dour (a.) Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold.

Doura (n.) A kind of millet. See Durra.

Douroucouli (n.) See Durukuli.

Doused (imp. & p. p.) of Douse

Dousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Douse

Douse (v. t.) To plunge suddenly into water; to duck; to immerse; to dowse.

Douse (v. t.) To strike or lower in haste; to slacken suddenly; as, douse the topsail.

Douse (v. i.) To fall suddenly into water.

Douse (v. t.) To put out; to extinguish.

Dousing-chock (n.) One of several pieces fayed across the apron and lapped in the knightheads, or inside planking above the upper deck.

Dout (v. t.) To put out.

Douter (n.) An extinguisher for candles.

Dove (n.) A pigeon of the genus Columba and various related genera. The species are numerous.

Dove (n.) A word of endearment for one regarded as pure and gentle.

Dovecot (n.) Alt. of Dovecote

Dovecote (n.) A small house or box, raised to a considerable height above the ground, and having compartments, in which domestic pigeons breed; a dove house.

Dove-eyed (a.) Having eyes like a dove; meekeyed; as, dove-eyed Peace.

Dovekie (n.) A guillemot (Uria grylle), of the arctic regions. Also applied to the little auk or sea dove. See under Dove.

Dovelet (n.) A young or small dove.

Dovelike (a.) Mild as a dove; gentle; pure and lovable.

Dove plant () A Central American orchid (Peristeria elata), having a flower stem five or six feet high, with numerous globose white fragrant flowers. The column in the center of the flower resembles a dove; -- called also Holy Spirit plant.

Dover's Powder () A powder of ipecac and opium, compounded, in the United States, with sugar of milk, but in England (as formerly in the United States) with sulphate of potash, and in France (as in Dr. Dover's original prescription) with nitrate and sulphate of potash and licorice. It is an anodyne diaphoretic.

Dove's-foot (n.) A small annual species of Geranium, native in England; -- so called from the shape of the leaf.

Dove's-foot (n.) The columbine.

Doveship (n.) The possession of dovelike qualities, harmlessness and innocence.

Dovetail (n.) A flaring tenon, or tongue (shaped like a bird's tail spread), and a mortise, or socket, into which it fits tightly, making an interlocking joint between two pieces which resists pulling a part in all directions except one.

Dovetailed (imp. & p. p.) of Dovetail

Dovetailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dovetail

Dovetail (v. t.) To cut to a dovetail.

Dovetail (v. t.) To join by means of dovetails.

Dovetail (v. t.) To fit in or connect strongly, skillfully, or nicely; to fit ingeniously or complexly.

Dovish (a.) Like a dove; harmless; innocent.

Dow (n.) A kind of vessel. See Dhow.

Dow (v. t.) To furnish with a dower; to endow.

Dowable (v. t.) Capable of being endowed; entitled to dower.

Dowager (n.) A widow endowed, or having a jointure; a widow who either enjoys a dower from her deceased husband, or has property of her own brought by her to her husband on marriage, and settled on her after his decease.

Dowager (n.) A title given in England to a widow, to distinguish her from the wife of her husband's heir bearing the same name; -- chiefly applied to widows of personages of rank.

Dowagerism (n.) The rank or condition of a dowager; formality, as that of a dowager. Also used figuratively.

Dowcet (n.) One of the testicles of a hart or stag.

Dowdy (superl.) Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress; vulgar-looking.

Dowdies (pl. ) of Dowdy

Dowdy (n.) An awkward, vulgarly dressed, inelegant woman.

Dowdyish (a.) Like a dowdy.

Dowel (n.) A pin, or block, of wood or metal, fitting into holes in the abutting portions of two pieces, and being partly in one piece and partly in the other, to keep them in their proper relative position.

Dowel (n.) A piece of wood driven into a wall, so that other pieces may be nailed to it.

Doweled (imp. & p. p.) of Dowel

Dowelled () of Dowel

Doweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dowel

Dowelling () of Dowel

Dowel (v. t.) To fasten together by dowels; to furnish with dowels; as, a cooper dowels pieces for the head of a cask.

Dower (n.) That with which one is gifted or endowed; endowment; gift.

Dower (n.) The property with which a woman is endowed

Dower (n.) That which a woman brings to a husband in marriage; dowry.

Dower (n.) That portion of the real estate of a man which his widow enjoys during her life, or to which a woman is entitled after the death of her husband.

Dowered (p. a.) Furnished with, or as with, dower or a marriage portion.

Dowerless (a.) Destitute of dower; having no marriage portion.

Dowery (n.) See Dower.

Dowitcher (n.) The red-breasted or gray snipe (Macrorhamphus griseus); -- called also brownback, and grayback.

Dowl (n.) Same as Dowle.

Dowlas (n.) A coarse linen cloth made in the north of England and in Scotland, now nearly replaced by calico.

Dowle (n.) Feathery or wool-like down; filament of a feather.

Down (n.) Fine, soft, hairy outgrowth from the skin or surface of animals or plants, not matted and fleecy like wool

Down (n.) The soft under feathers of birds. They have short stems with soft rachis and bards and long threadlike barbules, without hooklets.

Down (n.) The pubescence of plants; the hairy crown or envelope of the seeds of certain plants, as of the thistle.

Down (n.) The soft hair of the face when beginning to appear.

Down (n.) That which is made of down, as a bed or pillow; that which affords ease and repose, like a bed of down

Down (v. t.) To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down.

Down (prep.) A bank or rounded hillock of sand thrown up by the wind along or near the shore; a flattish-topped hill; -- usually in the plural.

Down (prep.) A tract of poor, sandy, undulating or hilly land near the sea, covered with fine turf which serves chiefly for the grazing of sheep; -- usually in the plural.

Down (prep.) A road for shipping in the English Channel or Straits of Dover, near Deal, employed as a naval rendezvous in time of war.

Down (prep.) A state of depression; low state; abasement.

Down (adv.) In the direction of gravity or toward the center of the earth; toward or in a lower place or position; below; -- the opposite of up.

Down (adv.) From a higher to a lower position, literally or figuratively; in a descending direction; from the top of an ascent; from an upright position; to the ground or floor; to or into a lower or an inferior condition; as, into a state of humility, disgrace, misery, and the like; into a state of rest; -- used with verbs indicating motion.

Down (adv.) In a low or the lowest position, literally or figuratively; at the bottom of a decent; below the horizon; of the ground; in a condition of humility, dejection, misery, and the like; in a state of quiet.

Down (adv.) From a remoter or higher antiquity.

Down (adv.) From a greater to a less bulk, or from a thinner to a thicker consistence; as, to boil down in cookery, or in making decoctions.

Down (adv.) In a descending direction along; from a higher to a lower place upon or within; at a lower place in or on; as, down a hill; down a well.

Down (adv.) Hence: Towards the mouth of a river; towards the sea; as, to sail or swim down a stream; to sail down the sound.

Downed (imp. & p. p.) of Down

Downing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Down

Down (v. t.) To cause to go down; to make descend; to put down; to overthrow, as in wrestling; hence, to subdue; to bring down.

Down (v. i.) To go down; to descend.

Down (a.) Downcast; as, a down look.

Down (a.) Downright; absolute; positive; as, a down denial.

Down (a.) Downward; going down; sloping; as, a down stroke; a down grade; a down train on a railway.

Downbear (v. t.) To bear down; to depress.

Downcast (a.) Cast downward; directed to the ground, from bashfulness, modesty, dejection, or guilt.

Downcast (n.) Downcast or melancholy look.

Downcast (n.) A ventilating shaft down which the air passes in circulating through a mine.

Downcome (n.) Sudden fall; downfall; overthrow.

Downcome (n.) A pipe for leading combustible gases downward from the top of the blast furnace to the hot-blast stoves, boilers, etc., where they are burned.

Downfall (n.) A sudden fall; a body of things falling.

Downfall (n.) A sudden descent from rank or state, reputation or happiness; destruction; ruin.

Downfallen (a.) Fallen; ruined.

Downfalling (a.) Falling down.

Downgyved (a.) Hanging down like gyves or fetters.

Downhaul (n.) A rope to haul down, or to assist in hauling down, a sail; as, a staysail downhaul; a trysail downhaul.

Downhearted (a.) Dejected; low-spirited.

Downhill (adv.) Towards the bottom of a hill; as, water runs downhill.

Downhill (a.) Declivous; descending; sloping.

Downhill (n.) Declivity; descent; slope.

Downiness (n.) The quality or state of being downy.

Downlooked (a.) Having a downcast countenance; dejected; gloomy; sullen.

Downlying (n.) The time of retiring to rest; time of repose.

Downpour (n.) A pouring or streaming downwards; esp., a heavy or continuous shower.

Downright (adv.) Straight down; perpendicularly.

Downright (adv.) In plain terms; without ceremony.

Downright (adv.) Without delay; at once; completely.

Downright (a.) Plain; direct; unceremonious; blunt; positive; as, he spoke in his downright way.

Downright (a.) Open; artless; undisguised; absolute; unmixed; as, downright atheism.

Down-share (n.) A breastplow used in paring off turf on downs.

Downsitting (n.) The act of sitting down; repose; a resting.

Downstairs (adv.) Down the stairs; to a lower floor.

Downstairs (a.) Below stairs; as, a downstairs room.

Downsteepy (a.) Very steep.

Downstream (adv.) Down the stream; as, floating downstream.

Downstroke (n.) A stroke made with a downward motion of the pen or pencil.

Downthrow (n.) The sudden drop or depression of the strata of rocks on one side of a fault. See Throw, n.

Downtrod (a.) Alt. of Downtrodden

Downtrodden (a.) Trodden down; trampled down; abused by superior power.

Downward (adv.) Alt. of Downwards

Downwards (adv.) From a higher place to a lower; in a descending course; as, to tend, move, roll, look, or take root, downward or downwards.

Downwards (adv.) From a higher to a lower condition; toward misery, humility, disgrace, or ruin.

Downwards (adv.) From a remote time; from an ancestor or predecessor; from one to another in a descending line.

Downward (a.) Moving or extending from a higher to a lower place; tending toward the earth or its center, or toward a lower level; declivous.

Downward (a.) Descending from a head, origin, or source; as, a downward line of descent.

Downward (a.) Tending to a lower condition or state; depressed; dejected; as, downward thoughts.

Downweed (n.) Cudweed, a species of Gnaphalium.

Downweigh (v. t.) To weigh or press down.

Downy (a.) Covered with down, or with pubescence or soft hairs.

Downy (a.) Made of, or resembling, down. Hence, figuratively: Soft; placid; soothing; quiet.

Downy (a.) Cunning; wary.

Dowral (a.) Of or relating to a dower.

Dowress (n.) A woman entitled to dower.

Dowries (pl. ) of Dowry

Dowry (n.) A gift; endowment.

Dowry (n.) The money, goods, or estate, which a woman brings to her husband in marriage; a bride's portion on her marriage. See Note under Dower.

Dowry (n.) A gift or presents for the bride, on espousal. See Dower.

Dowse (v. t.) To plunge, or duck into water; to immerse; to douse.

Dowse (v. t.) To beat or thrash.

Dowse (v. i.) To use the dipping or divining rod, as in search of water, ore, etc.

Dowse (n.) A blow on the face.

Dowser (n.) A divining rod used in searching for water, ore, etc., a dowsing rod.

Dowser (n.) One who uses the dowser or divining rod.

Dowst (n.) A dowse.

Dowve (n.) A dove.

Doxological (a.) Pertaining to doxology; giving praise to God.

Doxologized (imp. & p. p.) of Doxologize

Doxologizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doxologize

Doxologize (v. i.) To give glory to God, as in a doxology; to praise God with doxologies.

Doxologies (pl. ) of Doxology

Doxology (n.) In Christian worship: A hymn expressing praise and honor to God; a form of praise to God designed to be sung or chanted by the choir or the congregation.

Doxies (pl. ) of Doxy

Doxy (n.) A loose wench; a disreputable sweetheart.

Doyly (n.) See Doily.

Dozed (imp. & p. p.) of Doze

Dozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doze

Doze (v. i.) To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefied condition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy.

Doze (v. t.) To pass or spend in drowsiness; as, to doze away one's time.

Doze (v. t.) To make dull; to stupefy.

Doze (n.) A light sleep; a drowse.

Dozen (pl. ) of Dozen

Dozens (pl. ) of Dozen

Dozen (n.) A collection of twelve objects; a tale or set of twelve; with or without of before the substantive which follows.

Dozen (n.) An indefinite small number.

Dozenth (a.) Twelfth.

Dozer (n.) One who dozes or drowses.

Doziness (n.) The state of being dozy; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.

Dozy (a.) Drowsy; inclined to doze; sleepy; sluggish; as, a dozy head.

Dozzled (a.) Stupid; heavy.

Drab (n.) A low, sluttish woman.

Drab (n.) A lewd wench; a strumpet.

Drab (n.) A wooden box, used in salt works for holding the salt when taken out of the boiling pans.

Drabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Drab

Drabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drab

Drab (v. i.) To associate with strumpets; to wench.

Drab (n.) A kind of thick woolen cloth of a dun, or dull brownish yellow, or dull gray, color; -- called also drabcloth.

Drab (n.) A dull brownish yellow or dull gray color.

Drab (a.) Of a color between gray and brown.

Drab (n.) A drab color.

Drabber (n.) One who associates with drabs; a wencher.

Drabbet (n.) A coarse linen fabric, or duck.

Drabbish (a.) Somewhat drab in color.

Drabbish (a.) Having the character of a drab or low wench.

Drabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Drabble

Drabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drabble

Drabble (v. t.) To draggle; to wet and befoul by draggling; as, to drabble a gown or cloak.

Drabble (v. i.) To fish with a long line and rod; as, to drabble for barbels.

Drabbler (n.) A piece of canvas fastened by lacing to the bonnet of a sail, to give it a greater depth, or more drop.

Drabble-tail (n.) A draggle-tail; a slattern.

Dracaena (n.) A genus of liliaceous plants with woody stems and funnel-shaped flowers.

Dracanth (n.) A kind of gum; -- called also gum tragacanth, or tragacanth. See Tragacanth.

Drachm (n.) A drachma.

Drachm (n.) Same as Dram.

Drachmas (pl. ) of Drachma

Drachmae (pl. ) of Drachma

Drachma (n.) A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, having a different value in different States and at different periods. The average value of the Attic drachma is computed to have been about 19 cents.

Drachma (n.) A gold and silver coin of modern Greece worth 19.3 cents.

Drachma (n.) Among the ancient Greeks, a weight of about 66.5 grains; among the modern Greeks, a weight equal to a gram.

Drachme (n.) See Drachma.

Dracin (n.) See Draconin.

Draco (n.) The Dragon, a northern constellation within which is the north pole of the ecliptic.

Draco (n.) A luminous exhalation from marshy grounds.

Draco (n.) A genus of lizards. See Dragon, 6.

Draconian (a.) Pertaining to Draco, a famous lawgiver of Athens, 621 b. c.

Draconic (a.) Relating to Draco, the Athenian lawgiver; or to the constellation Draco; or to dragon's blood.

Draconin (n.) A red resin forming the essential basis of dragon's blood; -- called also dracin.

Dracontic (a.) Belonging to that space of time in which the moon performs one revolution, from ascending node to ascending node. See Dragon's head, under Dragon.

Dracontine (a.) Belonging to a dragon.

Dracunculi (pl. ) of Dracunculus

Dracunculus (n.) A fish; the dragonet.

Dracunculus (n.) The Guinea worm (Filaria medinensis).

Drad (p. p. & a.) Dreaded.

Dradde (imp.) of Dread.

Dradge (n.) Inferior ore, separated from the better by cobbing.

Draff (n.) Refuse; lees; dregs; the wash given to swine or cows; hogwash; waste matter.

Draffish (a.) Worthless; draffy.

Draffy (a.) Dreggy; waste; worthless.

Draff (n.) The act of drawing; also, the thing drawn. Same as Draught.

Draff (n.) A selecting or detaching of soldiers from an army, or from any part of it, or from a military post; also from any district, or any company or collection of persons, or from the people at large; also, the body of men thus drafted.

Draff (n.) An order from one person or party to another, directing the payment of money; a bill of exchange.

Draff (n.) An allowance or deduction made from the gross veight of goods.

Draff (n.) A drawing of lines for a plan; a plan delineated, or drawn in outline; a delineation. See Draught.

Draff (n.) The form of any writing as first drawn up; the first rough sketch of written composition, to be filled in, or completed. See Draught.

Draff (n.) A narrow border left on a finished stone, worked differently from the rest of its face.

Draff (n.) A narrow border worked to a plane surface along the edge of a stone, or across its face, as a guide to the stone-cutter.

Draff (n.) The slant given to the furrows in the dress of a millstone.

Draff (n.) Depth of water necessary to float a ship. See Draught.

Draff (n.) A current of air. Same as Draught.

Draft (a.) Pertaining to, or used for, drawing or pulling (as vehicles, loads, etc.). Same as Draught.

Draft (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, a draft, or current of air. Same as Draught.

Drafted (imp. & p. p.) of Draft

Drafting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Draft

Draft (v. t.) To draw the outline of; to delineate.

Draft (v. t.) To compose and write; as, to draft a memorial.

Draft (v. t.) To draw from a military band or post, or from any district, company, or society; to detach; to select.

Draft (v. t.) To transfer by draft.

Draftsman (n.) See Draughtsman.

Drag (n.) A confection; a comfit; a drug.

Dragged (imp. & p. p.) of Drag

Dragging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drag

Drag (v. t.) To draw slowly or heavily onward; to pull along the ground by main force; to haul; to trail; -- applied to drawing heavy or resisting bodies or those inapt for drawing, with labor, along the ground or other surface; as, to drag stone or timber; to drag a net in fishing.

Drag (v. t.) To break, as land, by drawing a drag or harrow over it; to harrow; to draw a drag along the bottom of, as a stream or other water; hence, to search, as by means of a drag.

Drag (v. t.) To draw along, as something burdensome; hence, to pass in pain or with difficulty.

Drag (v. i.) To be drawn along, as a rope or dress, on the ground; to trail; to be moved onward along the ground, or along the bottom of the sea, as an anchor that does not hold.

Drag (v. i.) To move onward heavily, laboriously, or slowly; to advance with weary effort; to go on lingeringly.

Drag (v. i.) To serve as a clog or hindrance; to hold back.

Drag (v. i.) To fish with a dragnet.

Drag (v. t.) The act of dragging; anything which is dragged.

Drag (v. t.) A net, or an apparatus, to be drawn along the bottom under water, as in fishing, searching for drowned persons, etc.

Drag (v. t.) A kind of sledge for conveying heavy bodies; also, a kind of low car or handcart; as, a stone drag.

Drag (v. t.) A heavy coach with seats on top; also, a heavy carriage.

Drag (v. t.) A heavy harrow, for breaking up ground.

Drag (v. t.) Anything towed in the water to retard a ship's progress, or to keep her head up to the wind; esp., a canvas bag with a hooped mouth, so used. See Drag sail (below).

Drag (v. t.) Also, a skid or shoe, for retarding the motion of a carriage wheel.

Drag (v. t.) Hence, anything that retards; a clog; an obstacle to progress or enjoyment.

Drag (v. t.) Motion affected with slowness and difficulty, as if clogged.

Drag (v. t.) The bottom part of a flask or mold, the upper part being the cope.

Drag (v. t.) A steel instrument for completing the dressing of soft stone.

Drag (v. t.) The difference between the speed of a screw steamer under sail and that of the screw when the ship outruns the screw; or between the propulsive effects of the different floats of a paddle wheel. See Citation under Drag, v. i., 3.

Dragantine (n.) A mucilage obtained from, or containing, gum tragacanth.

Dragbar (n.) Same as Drawbar (b). Called also draglink, and drawlink.

Dragbolt (n.) A coupling pin. See under Coupling.

Dragees (n. pl.) Sugar-coated medicines.

Draggled (imp. & p. p.) of Draggle

Draggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Draggle

Draggle (v. t.) To wet and soil by dragging on the ground, mud, or wet grass; to drabble; to trail.

Draggle (v. i.) To be dragged on the ground; to become wet or dirty by being dragged or trailed in the mud or wet grass.

Draggle-tail (n.) A slattern who suffers her gown to trail in the mire; a drabble-tail.

Draggle-tailed (a.) Untidy; sluttish; slatternly.

Draglink (n.) A link connecting the cranks of two shafts.

Draglink (n.) A drawbar.

Dragmen (pl. ) of Dragman

Dragman (n.) A fisherman who uses a dragnet.

Dragnet (n.) A net to be drawn along the bottom of a body of water, as in fishing.

Dragomans (pl. ) of Dragoman

Dragoman (n.) An interpreter; -- so called in the Levant and other parts of the East.

Dragon (n.) A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous winged serpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, and regarded as very powerful and ferocious.

Dragon (n.) A fierce, violent person, esp. a woman.

Dragon (n.) A constellation of the northern hemisphere figured as a dragon; Draco.

Dragon (n.) A luminous exhalation from marshy grounds, seeming to move through the air as a winged serpent.

Dragon (n.) A short musket hooked to a swivel attached to a soldier's belt; -- so called from a representation of a dragon's head at the muzzle.

Dragon (n.) A small arboreal lizard of the genus Draco, of several species, found in the East Indies and Southern Asia. Five or six of the hind ribs, on each side, are prolonged and covered with weblike skin, forming a sort of wing. These prolongations aid them in making long leaps from tree to tree. Called also flying lizard.

Dragon (n.) A variety of carrier pigeon.

Dragon (n.) A fabulous winged creature, sometimes borne as a charge in a coat of arms.

Dragonet (n.) A little dragon.

Dragonet (n.) A small British marine fish (Callionymuslyra); -- called also yellow sculpin, fox, and gowdie.

Dragonish (a.) resembling a dragon.

Dragonlike (a.) Like a dragon.

Dragonnade (n.) The severe persecution of French Protestants under Louis XIV., by an armed force, usually of dragoons; hence, a rapid and devastating incursion; dragoonade.

Dragon's blood () Alt. of Dragon's tail

Dragon's head () Alt. of Dragon's tail

Dragon's tail () See Dragon's blood, Dragon's head, etc., under Dragon.

Dragoon (n.) Formerly, a soldier who was taught and armed to serve either on horseback or on foot; now, a mounted soldier; a cavalry man.

Dragoon (n.) A variety of pigeon.

Dragooned (imp. & p. p.) of Dragoon

Dragooning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dragoon

Dragoon (v. t.) To harass or reduce to subjection by dragoons; to persecute by abandoning a place to the rage of soldiers.

Dragoon (v. t.) To compel submission by violent measures; to harass; to persecute.

Dragoonade (n.) See Dragonnade.

Dragooner (n.) A dragoon.

Drail (v. t. & i.) To trail; to draggle.

Drained (imp. & p. p.) of Drain

Draining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drain

Drain (v. t.) To draw off by degrees; to cause to flow gradually out or off; hence, to cause the exhaustion of.

Drain (v. t.) To exhaust of liquid contents by drawing them off; to make gradually dry or empty; to remove surface water, as from streets, by gutters, etc.; to deprive of moisture; hence, to exhaust; to empty of wealth, resources, or the like; as, to drain a country of its specie.

Drain (v. t.) To filter.

Drain (v. i.) To flow gradually; as, the water of low ground drains off.

Drain (v. i.) To become emptied of liquor by flowing or dropping; as, let the vessel stand and drain.

Drain (n.) The act of draining, or of drawing off; gradual and continuous outflow or withdrawal; as, the drain of specie from a country.

Drain (n.) That means of which anything is drained; a channel; a trench; a water course; a sewer; a sink.

Drain (n.) The grain from the mashing tub; as, brewers' drains.

Drainable (a.) Capable of being drained.

Drainage (n.) A draining; a gradual flowing off of any liquid; also, that which flows out of a drain.

Drainage (n.) The mode in which the waters of a country pass off by its streams and rivers.

Drainage (n.) The system of drains and their operation, by which superfluous water is removed from towns, railway beds, mines, and other works.

Drainage (n.) Area or district drained; as, the drainage of the Po, the Thames, etc.

Drainage (n.) The act, process, or means of drawing off the pus or fluids from a wound, abscess, etc.

Draine (n.) The missel thrush.

Drainer (n.) One who, or that which, drains.

Draining (v. t.) The art of carrying off surplus water, as from land.

Drainpipe (n.) A pipe used for carrying off surplus water.

Draintile (n.) A hollow tile used in making drains; -- called also draining tile.

Draintrap (n.) See 4th Trap, 5.

Drake (n.) The male of the duck kind.

Drake (n.) The drake fly.

Drake (n.) A dragon.

Drake (n.) A small piece of artillery.

Drake (n.) Wild oats, brome grass, or darnel grass; -- called also drawk, dravick, and drank.

Drakestone (n.) A flat stone so thrown along the surface of water as to skip from point to point before it sinks; also, the sport of so throwing stones; -- sometimes called ducks and drakes.

Dram (n.) A weight; in Apothecaries' weight, one eighth part of an ounce, or sixty grains; in Avoirdupois weight, one sixteenth part of an ounce, or 27.34375 grains.

Dram (n.) A minute quantity; a mite.

Dram (n.) As much spirituous liquor as is usually drunk at once; as, a dram of brandy; hence, a potation or potion; as, a dram of poison.

Dram (n.) A Persian daric.

Dram (v. i. & t.) To drink drams; to ply with drams.

Drama (n.) A composition, in prose or poetry, accommodated to action, and intended to exhibit a picture of human life, or to depict a series of grave or humorous actions of more than ordinary interest, tending toward some striking result. It is commonly designed to be spoken and represented by actors on the stage.

Drama (n.) A series of real events invested with a dramatic unity and interest.

Drama (n.) Dramatic composition and the literature pertaining to or illustrating it; dramatic literature.

Dramatic (a.) Alt. of Dramatical

Dramatical (a.) Of or pertaining to the drama; appropriate to, or having the qualities of, a drama; theatrical; vivid.

Dramatically (adv.) In a dramatic manner; theatrically; vividly.

Dramatis personae () The actors in a drama or play.

Dramatist (n.) The author of a dramatic composition; a writer of plays.

Dramatizable (a.) Capable of being dramatized.

Dramatization (n.) Act of dramatizing.

Dramatized (imp. & p. p.) of Dramatize

Dramatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dramatize

Dramatize (v. t.) To compose in the form of the drama; to represent in a drama; to adapt to dramatic representation; as, to dramatize a novel, or an historical episode.

Dramaturgic (a.) Relating to dramaturgy.

Dramaturgist (n.) One versed in dramaturgy.

Dramaturgy (n.) The art of dramatic composition and representation.

Dramming (n.) The practice of drinking drams.

Dramseller (n.) One who sells distilled liquors by the dram or glass.

Dramshop (n.) A shop or barroom where spirits are sold by the dram.

Drank (imp.) of Drink.

Drank (n.) Wild oats, or darnel grass. See Drake a plant.

Drap d'ete () A thin woolen fabric, twilled like merino.

Draped (imp. & p. p.) of Drape

Draping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drape

Drape (v. t.) To cover or adorn with drapery or folds of cloth, or as with drapery; as, to drape a bust, a building, etc.

Drape (v. t.) To rail at; to banter.

Drape (v. i.) To make cloth.

Drape (v. i.) To design drapery, arrange its folds, etc., as for hangings, costumes, statues, etc.

Draper (n.) One who sells cloths; a dealer in cloths; as, a draper and tailor.

Draperied (a.) Covered or supplied with drapery.

Draperies (pl. ) of Drapery

Drapery (n.) The occupation of a draper; cloth-making, or dealing in cloth.

Drapery (n.) Cloth, or woolen stuffs in general.

Drapery (n.) A textile fabric used for decorative purposes, especially when hung loosely and in folds carefully disturbed; as: (a) Garments or vestments of this character worn upon the body, or shown in the representations of the human figure in art. (b) Hangings of a room or hall, or about a bed.

Drapet (n.) Cloth.

Drastic (a.) Acting rapidly and violently; efficacious; powerful; -- opposed to bland; as, drastic purgatives.

Drastic (n.) A violent purgative. See Cathartic.

Drasty (a.) Filthy; worthless.

Draugh (n.) See Draft.

Draught (n.) The act of drawing or pulling

Draught (n.) The act of moving loads by drawing, as by beasts of burden, and the like.

Draught (n.) The drawing of a bowstring.

Draught (n.) Act of drawing a net; a sweeping the water for fish.

Draught (n.) The act of drawing liquor into the mouth and throat; the act of drinking.

Draught (n.) A sudden attack or drawing upon an enemy.

Draught (n.) The act of selecting or detaching soldiers; a draft (see Draft, n., 2)

Draught (n.) The act of drawing up, marking out, or delineating; representation.

Draught (n.) That which is drawn

Draught (n.) That which is taken by sweeping with a net.

Draught (n.) The force drawn; a detachment; -- in this sense usually written draft.

Draught (n.) The quantity drawn in at once in drinking; a potion or potation.

Draught (n.) A sketch, outline, or representation, whether written, designed, or drawn; a delineation.

Draught (n.) An order for the payment of money; -- in this sense almost always written draft.

Draught (n.) A current of air moving through an inclosed place, as through a room or up a chimney.

Draught (n.) That which draws

Draught (n.) A team of oxen or horses.

Draught (n.) A sink or drain; a privy.

Draught (n.) A mild vesicatory; a sinapism; as, to apply draughts to the feet.

Draught (n.) Capacity of being drawn; force necessary to draw; traction.

Draught (n.) The depth of water necessary to float a ship, or the depth a ship sinks in water, especially when laden; as, a ship of twelve feet draught.

Draught (n.) An allowance on weighable goods. [Eng.] See Draft, 4.

Draught (n.) A move, as at chess or checkers.

Draught (n.) The bevel given to the pattern for a casting, in order that it may be drawn from the sand without injury to the mold.

Draught (n.) See Draft, n., 7.

Draught (a.) Used for drawing vehicles, loads, etc.; as, a draught beast; draught hooks.

Draught (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, a draft, or current of air.

Draught (a.) Used in making drawings; as, draught compasses.

Draught (a.) Drawn directly from the barrel, or other receptacle, in distinction from bottled; on draught; -- said of ale, cider, and the like.

Draughted (imp. & p. p.) of Draught

Draughting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Draught

Draught (v. t.) To draw out; to call forth. See Draft.

Draught (v. t.) To diminish or exhaust by drawing.

Draught (v. t.) To draw in outline; to make a draught, sketch, or plan of, as in architectural and mechanical drawing.

Draughtboard (n.) A checkered board on which draughts are played. See Checkerboard.

Draughthouse (n.) A house for the reception of waste matter; a privy.

Draughts (n. pl.) A mild vesicatory. See Draught, n., 3 (c).

Draughts (n. pl.) A game, now more commonly called checkers. See Checkers.

Draughtsmen (pl. ) of Draughtsman

Draughtsman (n.) One who draws pleadings or other writings.

Draughtsman (n.) One who draws plans and sketches of machinery, structures, and places; also, more generally, one who makes drawings of any kind.

Draughtsman (n.) A man or piece used in the game of draughts.

Draughtsman (n.) One who drinks drams; a tippler.

Draughtsmanship (n.) The office, art, or work of a draughtsman.

Draughty (a.) Pertaining to a draught, or current of air; as, a draughtly, comfortless room.

Drave () old imp. of Drive.

Dravida (n. pl.) A race of Hindostan, believed to be the original people who occupied the land before the Hindoo or Aryan invasion.

Dravidian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Dravida.

Drew (imp.) of Draw

Drawn (p. p.) of Draw

Drawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Draw

Draw (v. t.) To cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow.

Draw (v. t.) To influence to move or tend toward one's self; to exercise an attracting force upon; to call towards itself; to attract; hence, to entice; to allure; to induce.

Draw (v. t.) To cause to come out for one's use or benefit; to extract; to educe; to bring forth; as: (a) To bring or take out, or to let out, from some receptacle, as a stick or post from a hole, water from a cask or well, etc.

Draw (v. t.) To pull from a sheath, as a sword.

Draw (v. t.) To extract; to force out; to elicit; to derive.

Draw (v. t.) To obtain from some cause or origin; to infer from evidence or reasons; to deduce from premises; to derive.

Draw (v. t.) To take or procure from a place of deposit; to call for and receive from a fund, or the like; as, to draw money from a bank.

Draw (v. t.) To take from a box or wheel, as a lottery ticket; to receive from a lottery by the drawing out of the numbers for prizes or blanks; hence, to obtain by good fortune; to win; to gain; as, he drew a prize.

Draw (v. t.) To select by the drawing of lots.

Draw (v. t.) To remove the contents of

Draw (v. t.) To drain by emptying; to suck dry.

Draw (v. t.) To extract the bowels of; to eviscerate; as, to draw a fowl; to hang, draw, and quarter a criminal.

Draw (v. t.) To take into the lungs; to inhale; to inspire; hence, also, to utter or produce by an inhalation; to heave.

Draw (v. t.) To extend in length; to lengthen; to protract; to stretch; to extend, as a mass of metal into wire.

Draw (v. t.) To run, extend, or produce, as a line on any surface; hence, also, to form by marking; to make by an instrument of delineation; to produce, as a sketch, figure, or picture.

Draw (v. t.) To represent by lines drawn; to form a sketch or a picture of; to represent by a picture; to delineate; hence, to represent by words; to depict; to describe.

Draw (v. t.) To write in due form; to prepare a draught of; as, to draw a memorial, a deed, or bill of exchange.

Draw (v. t.) To require (so great a depth, as of water) for floating; -- said of a vessel; to sink so deep in (water); as, a ship draws ten feet of water.

Draw (v. t.) To withdraw.

Draw (v. t.) To trace by scent; to track; -- a hunting term.

Draw (v. i.) To pull; to exert strength in drawing anything; to have force to move anything by pulling; as, a horse draws well; the sails of a ship draw well.

Draw (v. i.) To draw a liquid from some receptacle, as water from a well.

Draw (v. i.) To exert an attractive force; to act as an inducement or enticement.

Draw (v. i.) To have efficiency as an epispastic; to act as a sinapism; -- said of a blister, poultice, etc.

Draw (v. i.) To have draught, as a chimney, flue, or the like; to furnish transmission to smoke, gases, etc.

Draw (v. i.) To unsheathe a weapon, especially a sword.

Draw (v. i.) To perform the act, or practice the art, of delineation; to sketch; to form figures or pictures.

Draw (v. i.) To become contracted; to shrink.

Draw (v. i.) To move; to come or go; literally, to draw one's self; -- with prepositions and adverbs; as, to draw away, to move off, esp. in racing, to get in front; to obtain the lead or increase it; to draw back, to retreat; to draw level, to move up even (with another); to come up to or overtake another; to draw off, to retire or retreat; to draw on, to advance; to draw up, to form in array; to draw near, nigh, or towards, to approach; to draw together, to come together, to collect.

Draw (v. i.) To make a draft or written demand for payment of money deposited or due; -- usually with on or upon.

Draw (v. i.) To admit the action of pulling or dragging; to undergo draught; as, a carriage draws easily.

Draw (v. i.) To sink in water; to require a depth for floating.

Draw (n.) The act of drawing; draught.

Draw (n.) A lot or chance to be drawn.

Draw (n.) A drawn game or battle, etc.

Draw (n.) That part of a bridge which may be raised, swung round, or drawn aside; the movable part of a drawbridge. See the Note under Drawbridge.

Drawable (a.) Capable of being drawn.

Drawback (n.) A loss of advantage, or deduction from profit, value, success, etc.; a discouragement or hindrance; objectionable feature.

Drawback (n.) Money paid back or remitted; especially, a certain amount of duties or customs, sometimes the whole, and sometimes only a part, remitted or paid back by the government, on the exportation of the commodities on which they were levied.

Drawbar (n.) An openmouthed bar at the end of a car, which receives a coupling link and pin by which the car is drawn. It is usually provided with a spring to give elasticity to the connection between the cars of a train.

Drawbar (n.) A bar of iron with an eye at each end, or a heavy link, for coupling a locomotive to a tender or car.

Drawbench (n.) A machine in which strips of metal are drawn through a drawplate; especially, one in which wire is thus made; -- also called drawing bench.

Drawbolt (n.) A coupling pin. See under Coupling.

Drawbore (n.) A hole bored through a tenon nearer to the shoulder than the holes through the cheeks are to the edge or abutment against which the shoulder is to rest, so that a pin or bolt, when driven into it, will draw these parts together.

Drawbore (v. t.) To make a drawbore in; as, to drawbore a tenon.

Drawbore (v. t.) To enlarge the bore of a gun barrel by drawing, instead of thrusting, a revolving tool through it.

Drawboy (n.) A boy who operates the harness cords of a hand loom; also, a part of power loom that performs the same office.

Drawbridge (n.) A bridge of which either the whole or a part is made to be raised up, let down, or drawn or turned aside, to admit or hinder communication at pleasure, as before the gate of a town or castle, or over a navigable river or canal.

Drawcansir (n.) A blustering, bullying fellow; a pot-valiant braggart; a bully.

Draw-cut (n.) A single cut with a knife.

Drawee (n.) The person on whom an order or bill of exchange is drawn; -- the correlative of drawer.

Drawer (n.) One who, or that which, draws

Drawer (n.) One who draws liquor for guests; a waiter in a taproom.

Drawer (n.) One who delineates or depicts; a draughtsman; as, a good drawer.

Drawer (n.) One who draws a bill of exchange or order for payment; -- the correlative of drawee.

Drawer (n.) That which is drawn

Drawer (n.) A sliding box or receptacle in a case, which is opened by pulling or drawing out, and closed by pushing in.

Drawer (n.) An under-garment worn on the lower limbs.

Drawfiling (n.) The process of smooth filing by working the file sidewise instead of lengthwise.

Drawgear (n.) A harness for draught horses.

Drawgear (n.) The means or parts by which cars are connected to be drawn.

Drawgloves (n. pl.) An old game, played by holding up the fingers.

Drawhead (n.) The flanged outer end of a drawbar; also, a name applied to the drawgear.

Drawing (n.) The act of pulling, or attracting.

Drawing (n.) The act or the art of representing any object by means of lines and shades; especially, such a representation when in one color, or in tints used not to represent the colors of natural objects, but for effect only, and produced with hard material such as pencil, chalk, etc.; delineation; also, the figure or representation drawn.

Drawing (n.) The process of stretching or spreading metals as by hammering, or, as in forming wire from rods or tubes and cups from sheet metal, by pulling them through dies.

Drawing (n.) The process of pulling out and elongating the sliver from the carding machine, by revolving rollers, to prepare it for spinning.

Drawing (n.) The distribution of prizes and blanks in a lottery.

Drawing knife (n.) Alt. of Drawknife

Drawknife (n.) A joiner's tool having a blade with a handle at each end, used to shave off surfaces, by drawing it toward one; a shave; -- called also drawshave, and drawing shave.

Drawknife (n.) A tool used for the purpose of making an incision along the path a saw is to follow, to prevent it from tearing the surface of the wood.

Drawing-room (n.) A room appropriated for the reception of company; a room to which company withdraws from the dining room.

Drawing-room (n.) The company assembled in such a room; also, a reception of company in it; as, to hold a drawing-room.

Drawled (imp. & p. p.) of Drawl

Drawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drawl

Drawl (v. t.) To utter in a slow, lengthened tone.

Drawl (v. i.) To speak with slow and lingering utterance, from laziness, lack of spirit, affectation, etc.

Drawl (n.) A lengthened, slow monotonous utterance.

Drawlatch (n.) A housebreaker or thief.

Drawling (n.) The act of speaking with a drawl; a drawl.

Drawlink (n.) Same as Drawbar (b).

Drawloom (n.) A kind of loom used in weaving figured patterns; -- called also drawboy.

Drawloom (n.) A species of damask made on the drawloom.

Drawn (p. p. & a.) See Draw, v. t. & i.

Drawnet (n.) A net for catching the larger sorts of birds; also, a dragnet.

Drawplate (n.) A hardened steel plate having a hole, or a gradation of conical holes, through which wires are drawn to be reduced and elongated.

Drawrod (n.) A rod which unites the drawgear at opposite ends of the car, and bears the pull required to draw the train.

Drawshave (n.) See Drawing knife.

Drawspring (n.) The spring to which a drawbar is attached.

Dray (n.) A squirrel's nest.

Dray (n.) A strong low cart or carriage used for heavy burdens.

Dray (n.) A kind of sledge or sled.

Drayage (n.) Use of a dray.

Drayage (n.) The charge, or sum paid, for the use of a dray.

Draymen (pl. ) of Drayman

Drayman (n.) A man who attends a dray.

Drazel (n.) A slut; a vagabond wench. Same as Drossel.

Dreaded (imp. & p. p.) of Dread

Dreading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dread

Dread (v. t.) To fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, with terrific apprehension.

Dread (v. i.) To be in dread, or great fear.

Dread (n.) Great fear in view of impending evil; fearful apprehension of danger; anticipatory terror.

Dread (n.) Reverential or respectful fear; awe.

Dread (n.) An object of terrified apprehension.

Dread (n.) A person highly revered.

Dread (n.) Fury; dreadfulness.

Dread (n.) Doubt; as, out of dread.

Dread (a.) Exciting great fear or apprehension; causing terror; frightful; dreadful.

Dread (a.) Inspiring with reverential fear; awful' venerable; as, dread sovereign; dread majesty; dread tribunal.

Dreadable (a.) Worthy of being dreaded.

Dread-bolted (a.) Armed with dreaded bolts.

Dreader (n.) One who fears, or lives in fear.

Dreadful (a.) Full of dread or terror; fearful.

Dreadful (a.) Inspiring dread; impressing great fear; fearful; terrible; as, a dreadful storm.

Dreadful (a.) Inspiring awe or reverence; awful.

Dreadfully (adv.) In a dreadful manner; terribly.

Dreadfulness (n.) The quality of being dreadful.

Dreadingly (adv.) With dread.

Dreadless (a.) Free from dread; fearless; intrepid; dauntless; as, dreadless heart.

Dreadless (a.) Exempt from danger which causes dread; secure.

Dreadless (adv.) Without doubt.

Dreadlessness (n.) Freedom from dread.

Dreadly (a.) Dreadful.

Dreadly (adv.) With dread.

Dreadnaught (n.) A fearless person.

Dreadnaught (n.) Hence: A garment made of very thick cloth, that can defend against storm and cold; also, the cloth itself; fearnaught.

Dream (n.) The thoughts, or series of thoughts, or imaginary transactions, which occupy the mind during sleep; a sleeping vision.

Dream (n.) A visionary scheme; a wild conceit; an idle fancy; a vagary; a revery; -- in this sense, applied to an imaginary or anticipated state of happiness; as, a dream of bliss; the dream of his youth.

Dreamed (imp. & p. p.) of Dream

Dreamt () of Dream

Dreaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dream

Dream (n.) To have ideas or images in the mind while in the state of sleep; to experience sleeping visions; -- often with of; as, to dream of a battle, or of an absent friend.

Dream (n.) To let the mind run on in idle revery or vagary; to anticipate vaguely as a coming and happy reality; to have a visionary notion or idea; to imagine.

Dream (v. t.) To have a dream of; to see, or have a vision of, in sleep, or in idle fancy; -- often followed by an objective clause.

Dreamer (n.) One who dreams.

Dreamer (n.) A visionary; one lost in wild imaginations or vain schemes of some anticipated good; as, a political dreamer.

Dreamful (a.) Full of dreams.

Dreamily (adv.) As if in a dream; softly; slowly; languidly.

Dreaminess (n.) The state of being dreamy.

Dreamingly (adv.) In a dreamy manner.

Dreamland (n.) An unreal, delightful country such as in sometimes pictured in dreams; region of fancies; fairyland.

Dreamless (a.) Free from, or without, dreams.

Dreamy (superl.) Abounding in dreams or given to dreaming; appropriate to, or like, dreams; visionary.

Drear (a.) Dismal; gloomy with solitude.

Drear (n.) Sadness; dismalness.

Drearihead (n.) Alt. of Drearihood

Drearihood (n.) Affliction; dreariness.

Drearily (adv.) Gloomily; dismally.

Dreariment (n.) Dreariness.

Dreariness (n.) Sorrow; wretchedness.

Dreariness (n.) Dismalness; gloomy solitude.

Drearing (n.) Sorrow.

Drearisome (a.) Very dreary.

Dreary (superl.) Sorrowful; distressful.

Dreary (superl.) Exciting cheerless sensations, feelings, or associations; comfortless; dismal; gloomy.

Drecche (v. t.) To vex; to torment; to trouble.

Drecche (v. i.) To delay.

Dredge (n.) Any instrument used to gather or take by dragging; as: (a) A dragnet for taking up oysters, etc., from their beds. (b) A dredging machine. (c) An iron frame, with a fine net attached, used in collecting animals living at the bottom of the sea.

Dredge (n.) Very fine mineral matter held in suspension in water.

Dredged (imp. & p. p.) of Dredge

Dredging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dredge

Dredge (v. t.) To catch or gather with a dredge; to deepen with a dredging machine.

Dredge (n.) A mixture of oats and barley.

Dredge (v. t.) To sift or sprinkle flour, etc., on, as on roasting meat.

Dredger (n.) One who fishes with a dredge.

Dredger (n.) A dredging machine.

Dredger (n.) A box with holes in its lid; -- used for sprinkling flour, as on meat or a breadboard; -- called also dredging box, drudger, and drudging box.

Dree (v. t.) To endure; to suffer.

Dree (v. i.) To be able to do or endure.

Dree (a.) Wearisome; tedious.

Dreg (n.) Corrupt or defiling matter contained in a liquid, or precipitated from it; refuse; feculence; lees; grounds; sediment; hence, the vilest and most worthless part of anything; as, the dregs of society.

Dregginess (n.) Fullness of dregs or lees; foulness; feculence.

Dreggish (a.) Foul with lees; feculent.

Dreggy (a.) Containing dregs or lees; muddy; foul; feculent.

Drein (v. i.) To drain.

Dreint () p. p. of Drench to drown.

Dreissena (n.) A genus of bivalve shells of which one species (D. polymorpha) is often so abundant as to be very troublesome in the fresh waters of Europe.

Drenched (imp. & p. p.) of Drench

Drenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drench

Drench (v. t.) To cause to drink; especially, to dose by force; to put a potion down the throat of, as of a horse; hence. to purge violently by physic.

Drench (v. t.) To steep in moisture; to wet thoroughly; to soak; to saturate with water or other liquid; to immerse.

Drench (v. t.) A drink; a draught; specifically, a potion of medicine poured or forced down the throat; also, a potion that causes purging.

Drench (n.) A military vassal mentioned in Domesday Book.

Drenche (v. t. & i.) To drown.

Drencher (n.) One who, or that which, west or steeps.

Drencher (n.) One who administers a drench.

Drengage (n.) The tenure by which a drench held land.

Drent (p. p.) Drenched; drowned.

Dresden ware () A superior kind of decorated porcelain made near Dresden in Saxony.

Dressed (imp. & p. p.) of Dress

Drest () of Dress

Dressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dress

Dress (v. t.) To direct; to put right or straight; to regulate; to order.

Dress (v. t.) To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonly to adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, to dress the ranks.

Dress (v. t.) To treat methodically with remedies, bandages, or curative appliances, as a sore, an ulcer, a wound, or a wounded or diseased part.

Dress (v. t.) To adjust; to put in good order; to arrange; specifically: (a) To prepare for use; to fit for any use; to render suitable for an intended purpose; to get ready; as, to dress a slain animal; to dress meat; to dress leather or cloth; to dress or trim a lamp; to dress a garden; to dress a horse, by currying and rubbing; to dress grain, by cleansing it; in mining and metallurgy, to dress ores, by sorting and separating them.

Dress (v. t.) To cut to proper dimensions, or give proper shape to, as to a tool by hammering; also, to smooth or finish.

Dress (v. t.) To put in proper condition by appareling, as the body; to put clothes upon; to apparel; to invest with garments or rich decorations; to clothe; to deck.

Dress (v. t.) To break and train for use, as a horse or other animal.

Dress (v. i.) To arrange one's self in due position in a line of soldiers; -- the word of command to form alignment in ranks; as, Right, dress!

Dress (v. i.) To clothe or apparel one's self; to put on one's garments; to pay particular regard to dress; as, to dress quickly.

Dress (n.) That which is used as the covering or ornament of the body; clothes; garments; habit; apparel.

Dress (n.) A lady's gown; as, silk or a velvet dress.

Dress (n.) Attention to apparel, or skill in adjusting it.

Dress (n.) The system of furrows on the face of a millstone.

Dress coat () A coat with skirts behind only, as distinct from the frock coat, of which the skirts surround the body. It is worn on occasions of ceremony. The dress coat of officers of the United States army is a full-skirted frock coat.

Dresser (n.) One who dresses; one who put in order or makes ready for use; one who on clothes or ornaments.

Dresser (n.) A kind of pick for shaping large coal.

Dresser (n.) An assistant in a hospital, whose office it is to dress wounds, sores, etc.

Dresser (v. t.) A table or bench on which meat and other things are dressed, or prepared for use.

Dresser (v. t.) A cupboard or set of shelves to receive dishes and cooking utensils.

Dress goods () A term applied to fabrics for the gowns of women and girls; -- most commonly to fabrics of mixed materials, but also applicable to silks, printed linens, and calicoes.

Dressiness (n.) The state of being dressy.

Dressing (n.) Dress; raiment; especially, ornamental habiliment or attire.

Dressing (n.) An application (a remedy, bandage, etc.) to a sore or wound.

Dressing (n.) Manure or compost over land. When it remains on the surface, it is called a top-dressing.

Dressing (n.) A preparation to fit food for use; a condiment; as, a dressing for salad.

Dressing (n.) The stuffing of fowls, pigs, etc.; forcemeat.

Dressing (n.) Gum, starch, and the like, used in stiffening or finishing silk, linen, and other fabrics.

Dressing (n.) An ornamental finish, as a molding around doors, windows, or on a ceiling, etc.

Dressing (n.) Castigation; scolding; -- often with down.

Dressmaker (n.) A maker of gowns, or similar garments; a mantuamaker.

Dressmaking (n.) The art, process, or occupation, of making dresses.

Dressy (a.) Showy in dress; attentive to dress.

Drest (p. p.) of Dress.

Dretch (v. t. & i.) See Drecche.

Dreul (v. i.) To drool.

Drevil (n.) A fool; a drudge. See Drivel.

Drew (imp.) of Draw.

Drey (n.) A squirrel's nest. See Dray.

Dreye (a.) Dry.

Dreynt () p. p., of Drench to drown.

Dribbed (imp. & p. p.) of Drib

Dribbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drib

Drib (v. t.) To do by little and little

Drib (v. t.) To cut off by a little at a time; to crop.

Drib (v. t.) To appropriate unlawfully; to filch; to defalcate.

Drib (v. t.) To lead along step by step; to entice.

Drib (v. t. & i.) To shoot (a shaft) so as to pierce on the descent.

Drib (n.) A drop.

Dribber (n.) One who dribs; one who shoots weakly or badly.

Dribbled (imp. & p. p.) of Dribble

Dribbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dribble

Dribble (v. i.) To fall in drops or small drops, or in a quick succession of drops; as, water dribbles from the eaves.

Dribble (v. i.) To slaver, as a child or an idiot; to drivel.

Dribble (v. i.) To fall weakly and slowly.

Dribble (v. t.) To let fall in drops.

Dribble (n.) A drizzling shower; a falling or leaking in drops.

Dribbler (n.) One who dribbles.

Dribblet (n.) Alt. of Driblet

Driblet (n.) A small piece or part; a small sum; a small quantity of money in making up a sum; as, the money was paid in dribblets.

Drie (v. t.) To endure.

Dried (imp. & p. p.) of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples.

Drier (n.) One who, or that which, dries; that which may expel or absorb moisture; a desiccative; as, the sun and a northwesterly wind are great driers of the earth.

Drier (n.) Drying oil; a substance mingled with the oil used in oil painting to make it dry quickly.

Drier (superl.) Alt. of Driest

Driest (superl.) of Dry, a.

Drift (n.) A driving; a violent movement.

Drift (n.) The act or motion of drifting; the force which impels or drives; an overpowering influence or impulse.

Drift (n.) Course or direction along which anything is driven; setting.

Drift (n.) The tendency of an act, argument, course of conduct, or the like; object aimed at or intended; intention; hence, also, import or meaning of a sentence or discourse; aim.

Drift (n.) That which is driven, forced, or urged along

Drift (n.) Anything driven at random.

Drift (n.) A mass of matter which has been driven or forced onward together in a body, or thrown together in a heap, etc., esp. by wind or water; as, a drift of snow, of ice, of sand, and the like.

Drift (n.) A drove or flock, as of cattle, sheep, birds.

Drift (n.) The horizontal thrust or pressure of an arch or vault upon the abutments.

Drift (n.) A collection of loose earth and rocks, or boulders, which have been distributed over large portions of the earth's surface, especially in latitudes north of forty degrees, by the agency of ice.

Drift (n.) In South Africa, a ford in a river.

Drift (n.) A slightly tapered tool of steel for enlarging or shaping a hole in metal, by being forced or driven into or through it; a broach.

Drift (n.) A tool used in driving down compactly the composition contained in a rocket, or like firework.

Drift (n.) A deviation from the line of fire, peculiar to oblong projectiles.

Drift (n.) A passage driven or cut between shaft and shaft; a driftway; a small subterranean gallery; an adit or tunnel.

Drift (n.) The distance through which a current flows in a given time.

Drift (n.) The angle which the line of a ship's motion makes with the meridian, in drifting.

Drift (n.) The distance to which a vessel is carried off from her desired course by the wind, currents, or other causes.

Drift (n.) The place in a deep-waisted vessel where the sheer is raised and the rail is cut off, and usually terminated with a scroll, or driftpiece.

Drift (n.) The distance between the two blocks of a tackle.

Drift (n.) The difference between the size of a bolt and the hole into which it is driven, or between the circumference of a hoop and that of the mast on which it is to be driven.

Drifted (imp. & p. p.) of Drift

Drifting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drift

Drift (v. i.) To float or be driven along by, or as by, a current of water or air; as, the ship drifted astern; a raft drifted ashore; the balloon drifts slowly east.

Drift (v. i.) To accumulate in heaps by the force of wind; to be driven into heaps; as, snow or sand drifts.

Drift (v. i.) to make a drift; to examine a vein or ledge for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of metals or ores; to follow a vein; to prospect.

Drift (v. t.) To drive or carry, as currents do a floating body.

Drift (v. t.) To drive into heaps; as, a current of wind drifts snow or sand.

Drift (v. t.) To enlarge or shape, as a hole, with a drift.

Drift (a.) That causes drifting or that is drifted; movable by wind or currents; as, drift currents; drift ice; drift mud.

Driftage (n.) Deviation from a ship's course due to leeway.

Driftage (n.) Anything that drifts.

Driftbolt (n.) A bolt for driving out other bolts.

Driftless (a.) Having no drift or direction; without aim; purposeless.

Driftpiece (n.) An upright or curved piece of timber connecting the plank sheer with the gunwale; also, a scroll terminating a rail.

Driftpin (n.) A smooth drift. See Drift, n., 9.

Driftway (n.) A common way, road, or path, for driving cattle.

Driftway (n.) Same as Drift, 11.

Driftweed (n.) Seaweed drifted to the shore by the wind.

Driftwind (n.) A driving wind; a wind that drives snow, sand, etc., into heaps.

Driftwood (n.) Wood drifted or floated by water.

Driftwood (n.) Fig.: Whatever is drifting or floating as on water.

Drifty (a.) Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like.

Drilled (imp. & p. p.) of Drill

Drilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drill

Drill (v. t.) To pierce or bore with a drill, or a with a drill; to perforate; as, to drill a hole into a rock; to drill a piece of metal.

Drill (v. t.) To train in the military art; to exercise diligently, as soldiers, in military evolutions and exercises; hence, to instruct thoroughly in the rudiments of any art or branch of knowledge; to discipline.

Drill (v. i.) To practice an exercise or exercises; to train one's self.

Drill (n.) An instrument with an edged or pointed end used for making holes in hard substances; strictly, a tool that cuts with its end, by revolving, as in drilling metals, or by a succession of blows, as in drilling stone; also, a drill press.

Drill (n.) The act or exercise of training soldiers in the military art, as in the manual of arms, in the execution of evolutions, and the like; hence, diligent and strict instruction and exercise in the rudiments and methods of any business; a kind or method of military exercises; as, infantry drill; battalion drill; artillery drill.

Drill (n.) Any exercise, physical or mental, enforced with regularity and by constant repetition; as, a severe drill in Latin grammar.

Drill (n.) A marine gastropod, of several species, which kills oysters and other bivalves by drilling holes through the shell. The most destructive kind is Urosalpinx cinerea.

Drill (v. t.) To cause to flow in drills or rills or by trickling; to drain by trickling; as, waters drilled through a sandy stratum.

Drill (v. t.) To sow, as seeds, by dribbling them along a furrow or in a row, like a trickling rill of water.

Drill (v. t.) To entice; to allure from step; to decoy; -- with on.

Drill (v. t.) To cause to slip or waste away by degrees.

Drill (v. i.) To trickle.

Drill (v. i.) To sow in drills.

Drill (n.) A small trickling stream; a rill.

Drill (n.) An implement for making holes for sowing seed, and sometimes so formed as to contain seeds and drop them into the hole made.

Drill (n.) A light furrow or channel made to put seed into sowing.

Drill (n.) A row of seed sown in a furrow.

Drill (n.) A large African baboon (Cynocephalus leucophaeus).

Drill (n.) Same as Drilling.

Driller (n.) One who, or that which, drills.

Drilling (n.) The act of piercing with a drill.

Drilling (n.) A training by repeated exercises.

Drilling (n.) The act of using a drill in sowing seeds.

Drilling (n.) A heavy, twilled fabric of linen or cotton.

Drillmaster (n.) One who teaches drill, especially in the way of gymnastics.

Drill press () A machine for drilling holes in metal, the drill being pressed to the metal by the action of a screw.

Drillstock (n.) A contrivance for holding and turning a drill.

Drily (adv.) See Dryly.

Drimys (n.) A genus of magnoliaceous trees. Drimys aromatica furnishes Winter's bark.

Drank (imp.) of Drink

Drunk () of Drink

Drunk (p. p.) of Drink

Drunken () of Drink

Drinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drink

Drink (v. i.) To swallow anything liquid, for quenching thirst or other purpose; to imbibe; to receive or partake of, as if in satisfaction of thirst; as, to drink from a spring.

Drink (v. i.) To quaff exhilarating or intoxicating liquors, in merriment or feasting; to carouse; to revel; hence, to lake alcoholic liquors to excess; to be intemperate in the /se of intoxicating or spirituous liquors; to tipple.

Drink (v. t.) To swallow (a liquid); to receive, as a fluid, into the stomach; to imbibe; as, to drink milk or water.

Drink (v. t.) To take in (a liquid), in any manner; to suck up; to absorb; to imbibe.

Drink (v. t.) To take in; to receive within one, through the senses; to inhale; to hear; to see.

Drink (v. t.) To smoke, as tobacco.

Drink (n.) Liquid to be swallowed; any fluid to be taken into the stomach for quenching thirst or for other purposes, as water, coffee, or decoctions.

Drink (n.) Specifically, intoxicating liquor; as, when drink is on, wit is out.

Drinkable (a.) Capable of being drunk; suitable for drink; potable. Macaulay. Also used substantively, esp. in the plural.

Drinkableness (n.) State of being drinkable.

Drinker (n.) One who drinks; as, the effects of tea on the drinker; also, one who drinks spirituous liquors to excess; a drunkard.

Drinking (n.) The act of one who drinks; the act of imbibing.

Drinking (n.) The practice of partaking to excess of intoxicating liquors.

Drinking (n.) An entertainment with liquors; a carousal.

Drinkless (a.) Destitute of drink.

Dripped (imp. & p. p.) of Drip

Dript () of Drip

Dripping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drip

Drip (v. i.) To fall in drops; as, water drips from the eaves.

Drip (v. i.) To let fall drops of moisture or liquid; as, a wet garment drips.

Drip (v. t.) To let fall in drops.

Drip (n.) A falling or letting fall in drops; a dripping; that which drips, or falls in drops.

Drip (n.) That part of a cornice, sill course, or other horizontal member, which projects beyond the rest, and is of such section as to throw off the rain water.

Dripping (n.) A falling in drops, or the sound so made.

Dripping (n.) That which falls in drops, as fat from meat in roasting.

Dripple (a.) Weak or rare.

Dripstone (n.) A drip, when made of stone. See Drip, 2.

Drove (imp.) of Drive

Drave () of Drive

Driven (p. p.) of Drive

Driving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drive

Drive (v. t.) To impel or urge onward by force in a direction away from one, or along before one; to push forward; to compel to move on; to communicate motion to; as, to drive cattle; to drive a nail; smoke drives persons from a room.

Drive (v. t.) To urge on and direct the motions of, as the beasts which draw a vehicle, or the vehicle borne by them; hence, also, to take in a carriage; to convey in a vehicle drawn by beasts; as, to drive a pair of horses or a stage; to drive a person to his own door.

Drive (v. t.) To urge, impel, or hurry forward; to force; to constrain; to urge, press, or bring to a point or state; as, to drive a person by necessity, by persuasion, by force of circumstances, by argument, and the like.

Drive (v. t.) To carry or; to keep in motion; to conduct; to prosecute.

Drive (v. t.) To clear, by forcing away what is contained.

Drive (v. t.) To dig Horizontally; to cut a horizontal gallery or tunnel.

Drive (v. t.) To pass away; -- said of time.

Drive (v. i.) To rush and press with violence; to move furiously.

Drive (v. i.) To be forced along; to be impelled; to be moved by any physical force or agent; to be driven.

Drive (v. i.) To go by carriage; to pass in a carriage; to proceed by directing or urging on a vehicle or the animals that draw it; as, the coachman drove to my door.

Drive (v. i.) To press forward; to aim, or tend, to a point; to make an effort; to strive; -- usually with at.

Drive (v. i.) To distrain for rent.

Drive (p. p.) Driven.

Drive (n.) The act of driving; a trip or an excursion in a carriage, as for exercise or pleasure; -- distinguished from a ride taken on horseback.

Drive (n.) A place suitable or agreeable for driving; a road prepared for driving.

Drive (n.) Violent or rapid motion; a rushing onward or away; esp., a forced or hurried dispatch of business.

Drive (n.) In type founding and forging, an impression or matrix, formed by a punch drift.

Drive (n.) A collection of objects that are driven; a mass of logs to be floated down a river.

Drivebolt (n.) A drift; a tool for setting bolts home.

Driveled (imp. & p. p.) of Drivel

Drivelled () of Drivel

Driveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drivel

Drivelling () of Drivel

Drivel (v. i.) To slaver; to let spittle drop or flow from the mouth, like a child, idiot, or dotard.

Drivel (v. i.) To be weak or foolish; to dote; as, a driveling hero; driveling love.

Drivel (n.) Slaver; saliva flowing from the mouth.

Drivel (n.) Inarticulate or unmeaning utterance; foolish talk; babble.

Drivel (n.) A driveler; a fool; an idiot.

Drivel (n.) A servant; a drudge.

Driveler (n.) A slaverer; a slabberer; an idiot; a fool.

Driven (p. p.) of Drive. Also adj.

Drivepipe (n.) A pipe for forcing into the earth.

Driver (n.) One who, or that which, drives; the person or thing that urges or compels anything else to move onward.

Driver (n.) The person who drives beasts or a carriage; a coachman; a charioteer, etc.; hence, also, one who controls the movements of a locomotive.

Driver (n.) An overseer of a gang of slaves or gang of convicts at their work.

Driver (n.) A part that transmits motion to another part by contact with it, or through an intermediate relatively movable part, as a gear which drives another, or a lever which moves another through a link, etc. Specifically:

Driver (n.) The driving wheel of a locomotive.

Driver (n.) An attachment to a lathe, spindle, or face plate to turn a carrier.

Driver (n.) A crossbar on a grinding mill spindle to drive the upper stone.

Driver (n.) The after sail in a ship or bark, being a fore-and-aft sail attached to a gaff; a spanker.

Driveway (n.) A passage or way along or through which a carriage may be driven.

Driving (a.) Having great force of impulse; as, a driving wind or storm.

Driving (a.) Communicating force; impelling; as, a driving shaft.

Driving (n.) The act of forcing or urging something along; the act of pressing or moving on furiously.

Driving (n.) Tendency; drift.

Drizzled (imp. & p. p.) of Drizzle

Drizzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drizzle

Drizzle (v. i.) To rain slightly in very small drops; to fall, as water from the clouds, slowly and in fine particles; as, it drizzles; drizzling drops or rain.

Drizzle (v. t.) To shed slowly in minute drops or particles.

Drizzle (n.) Fine rain or mist.

Drizzly (a.) Characterized by small rain, or snow; moist and disagreeable.

Drock (n.) A water course.

Drofland (n.) Alt. of Dryfland

Dryfland (n.) An ancient yearly payment made by some tenants to the king, or to their landlords, for the privilege of driving their cattle through a manor to fairs or markets.

Drogher (n.) A small craft used in the West India Islands to take off sugars, rum, etc., to the merchantmen; also, a vessel for transporting lumber, cotton, etc., coastwise; as, a lumber drogher.

Drogman (n.) Alt. of Drogoman

Drogoman (n.) See Dragoman.

Drogue (n.) See Drag, n., 6, and Drag sail, under Drag, n.

Droh (imp.) of Draw.

Droil (v. i.) To work sluggishly or slowly; to plod.

Droil (n.) A drudge.

Droil (n.) Mean labor; toil.

Droit (n.) A right; law in its aspect of the foundation of rights; also, in old law, the writ of right.

Droitural (a.) relating to the mere right of property, as distinguished from the right of possession; as, droitural actions.

Droitzschka (n.) See Drosky.

Droll (superl.) Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity; amusing and strange.

Droll (n.) One whose practice it is to raise mirth by odd tricks; a jester; a buffoon; a merry-andrew.

Droll (n.) Something exhibited to raise mirth or sport, as a puppet, a farce, and the like.

Drolled (imp. & p. p.) of Droll

Drolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Droll

Droll (v. i.) To jest; to play the buffoon.

Droll (v. t.) To lead or influence by jest or trick; to banter or jest; to cajole.

Droll (v. t.) To make a jest of; to set in a comical light.

Droller (n.) A jester; a droll.

Drolleries (pl. ) of Drollery

Drollery (n.) The quality of being droll; sportive tricks; buffoonery; droll stories; comical gestures or manners.

Drollery (n.) Something which serves to raise mirth

Drollery (n.) A puppet show; also, a puppet.

Drollery (n.) A lively or comic picture.

Drollingly (adv.) In a jesting manner.

Drollish (a.) Somewhat droll.

Drollist (n.) A droll.

Dromaeognathous (a.) Having the structure of the palate like that of the ostrich and emu.

Dromatherium (n.) A small extinct triassic mammal from North Carolina, the earliest yet found in America.

Drome (n.) The crab plover (Dromas ardeola), a peculiar North African bird, allied to the oyster catcher.

Dromedaries (pl. ) of Dromedary

Dromedary (n.) The Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius), having one hump or protuberance on the back, in distinction from the Bactrian camel, which has two humps.

Dromond () Alt. of Dromon

Dromon () In the Middle Ages, a large, fast-sailing galley, or cutter; a large, swift war vessel.

Drone (v. i.) The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee. It gathers no honey. See Honeybee.

Drone (v. i.) One who lives on the labors of others; a lazy, idle fellow; a sluggard.

Drone (v. i.) That which gives out a grave or monotonous tone or dull sound; as: (a) A drum. [Obs.] Halliwell. (b) The part of the bagpipe containing the two lowest tubes, which always sound the key note and the fifth.

Drone (v. i.) A humming or deep murmuring sound.

Drone (v. i.) A monotonous bass, as in a pastoral composition.

Droned (imp. & p. p.) of Drone

Droning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drone

Drone (n.) To utter or make a low, dull, monotonous, humming or murmuring sound.

Drone (n.) To love in idleness; to do nothing.

Drone bee () The male of the honeybee; a drone.

Drone fly () A dipterous insect (Eristalis tenax), resembling the drone bee. See Eristalis.

Dronepipe (n.) One of the low-toned tubes of a bagpipe.

Drongos (pl. ) of Drongo

Drongo (n.) A passerine bird of the family Dicruridae. They are usually black with a deeply forked tail. They are natives of Asia, Africa, and Australia; -- called also drongo shrikes.

Dronish (a.) Like a drone; indolent; slow.

Dronkelewe (a.) Given to drink; drunken.

Dronte (n.) The dodo.

Drony (a.) Like a drone; sluggish; lazy.

Drooled (imp. & p. p.) of Drool

Drooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drool

Drool (v. i.) To drivel, or drop saliva; as, the child drools.

Drooped (imp. & p. p.) of Droop

Drooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Droop

Droop (v. i.) To hang bending downward; to sink or hang down, as an animal, plant, etc., from physical inability or exhaustion, want of nourishment, or the like.

Droop (v. i.) To grow weak or faint with disappointment, grief, or like causes; to be dispirited or depressed; to languish; as, her spirits drooped.

Droop (v. i.) To proceed downward, or toward a close; to decline.

Droop (v. t.) To let droop or sink.

Droop (n.) A drooping; as, a droop of the eye.

Drooper (n.) One who, or that which, droops.

Droopingly (adv.) In a drooping manner.

Drop (n.) The quantity of fluid which falls in one small spherical mass; a liquid globule; a minim; hence, also, the smallest easily measured portion of a fluid; a small quantity; as, a drop of water.

Drop (n.) That which resembles, or that which hangs like, a liquid drop; as a hanging diamond ornament, an earring, a glass pendant on a chandelier, a sugarplum (sometimes medicated), or a kind of shot or slug.

Drop (n.) Same as Gutta.

Drop (n.) Any small pendent ornament.

Drop (n.) Whatever is arranged to drop, hang, or fall from an elevated position; also, a contrivance for lowering something

Drop (n.) A door or platform opening downward; a trap door; that part of the gallows on which a culprit stands when he is to be hanged; hence, the gallows itself.

Drop (n.) A machine for lowering heavy weights, as packages, coal wagons, etc., to a ship's deck.

Drop (n.) A contrivance for temporarily lowering a gas jet.

Drop (n.) A curtain which drops or falls in front of the stage of a theater, etc.

Drop (n.) A drop press or drop hammer.

Drop (n.) The distance of the axis of a shaft below the base of a hanger.

Drop (n.) Any medicine the dose of which is measured by drops; as, lavender drops.

Drop (n.) The depth of a square sail; -- generally applied to the courses only.

Drop (n.) Act of dropping; sudden fall or descent.

Dropped (imp. & p. p.) of Drop

Dropt () of Drop

Dropping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drop

Drop (n.) To pour or let fall in drops; to pour in small globules; to distill.

Drop (n.) To cause to fall in one portion, or by one motion, like a drop; to let fall; as, to drop a line in fishing; to drop a courtesy.

Drop (n.) To let go; to dismiss; to set aside; to have done with; to discontinue; to forsake; to give up; to omit.

Drop (n.) To bestow or communicate by a suggestion; to let fall in an indirect, cautious, or gentle manner; as, to drop hint, a word of counsel, etc.

Drop (n.) To lower, as a curtain, or the muzzle of a gun, etc.

Drop (n.) To send, as a letter; as, please drop me a line, a letter, word.

Drop (n.) To give birth to; as, to drop a lamb.

Drop (n.) To cover with drops; to variegate; to bedrop.

Drop (v. i.) To fall in drops.

Drop (v. i.) To fall, in general, literally or figuratively; as, ripe fruit drops from a tree; wise words drop from the lips.

Drop (v. i.) To let drops fall; to discharge itself in drops.

Drop (v. i.) To fall dead, or to fall in death.

Drop (v. i.) To come to an end; to cease; to pass out of mind; as, the affair dropped.

Drop (v. i.) To come unexpectedly; -- with in or into; as, my old friend dropped in a moment.

Drop (v. i.) To fall or be depressed; to lower; as, the point of the spear dropped a little.

Drop (v. i.) To fall short of a mark.

Drop (v. i.) To be deep in extent; to descend perpendicularly; as, her main topsail drops seventeen yards.

Droplet (n.) A little drop; a tear.

Droplight (n.) An apparatus for bringing artificial light down from a chandelier nearer to a table or desk; a pendant.

Dropmeal (adv.) Alt. of Dropmele

Dropmele (adv.) By drops or small portions.

Dropper (n.) One who, or that which, drops. Specif.: (Fishing) A fly that drops from the leaden above the bob or end fly.

Dropper (n.) A dropping tube.

Dropper (n.) A branch vein which drops off from, or leaves, the main lode.

Dropper (n.) A dog which suddenly drops upon the ground when it sights game, -- formerly a common, and still an occasional, habit of the setter.

Dropping (n.) The action of causing to drop or of letting drop; falling.

Dropping (n.) That which falls in drops; the excrement or dung of animals.

Droppinly (adv.) In drops.

Dropsical (a.) Diseased with dropsy; hydropical; tending to dropsy; as, a dropsical patient.

Dropsical (a.) Of or pertaining to dropsy.

Dropsicalness (n.) State of being dropsical.

Dropsied (a.) Diseased with drops.

Dropsies (pl. ) of Dropsy

Dropsy (n.) An unnatural collection of serous fluid in any serous cavity of the body, or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue.

Dropt () imp. & p. p. of Drop, v.

Dropwise (adv.) After the manner of a drop; in the form of drops.

Dropworm (n.) The larva of any geometrid moth, which drops from trees by means of a thread of silk, as the cankerworm.

Dropwort (n.) An Old World species of Spiraea (S. filipendula), with finely cut leaves.

Drosera (n.) A genus of low perennial or biennial plants, the leaves of which are beset with gland-tipped bristles. See Sundew.

Droskies (pl. ) of Drosky

Drosky (n.) A low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consisting of a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on a saddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground. Other kinds of vehicles are now so called, esp. a kind of victoria drawn by one or two horses, and used as a public carriage in German cities.

Drosometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the quantity of dew on the surface of a body in the open air. It consists of a balance, having a plate at one end to receive the dew, and at the other a weight protected from the deposit of dew.

Dross (n.) The scum or refuse matter which is thrown off, or falls from, metals in smelting the ore, or in the process of melting; recrement.

Dross (n.) Rust of metals.

Dross (n.) Waste matter; any worthless matter separated from the better part; leavings; dregs; refuse.

Drossel (n.) A slut; a hussy; a drazel.

Drossless (a.) Free from dross.

Drossy (superl.) Of, pertaining to, resembling, dross; full of dross; impure; worthless.

Drotchel (n.) See Drossel.

Drough (imp.) of Draw.

Drought (n.) Dryness; want of rain or of water; especially, such dryness of the weather as affects the earth, and prevents the growth of plants; aridity.

Drought (n.) Thirst; want of drink.

Drought (n.) Scarcity; lack.

Droughtiness (n.) A state of dryness of the weather; want of rain.

Droughty (a.) Characterized by drought; wanting rain; arid; adust.

Droughty (a.) Dry; thirsty; wanting drink.

Droumy (a.) Troubled; muddy.

Drouth (n.) Same as Drought.

Drouthy (a.) Droughty.

Drove (imp.) of Drive.

Drove (n.) A collection of cattle driven, or cattle collected for driving; a number of animals, as oxen, sheep, or swine, driven in a body.

Drove (n.) Any collection of irrational animals, moving or driving forward; as, a finny drove.

Drove (n.) A crowd of people in motion.

Drove (n.) A road for driving cattle; a driftway.

Drove (n.) A narrow drain or channel used in the irrigation of land.

Drove (n.) A broad chisel used to bring stone to a nearly smooth surface; -- called also drove chisel.

Drove (n.) The grooved surface of stone finished by the drove chisel; -- called also drove work.

Droven (p. p.) of Drive.

Drover (n.) One who drives cattle or sheep to market; one who makes it his business to purchase cattle, and drive them to market.

Drover (n.) A boat driven by the tide.

Drovy (a.) Turbid; muddy; filthy.

Drow (imp.) of Draw.

Drowned (imp. & p. p.) of Drown

Drowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drown

Drown (v. i.) To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water.

Drown (v. t.) To overwhelm in water; to submerge; to inundate.

Drown (v. t.) To deprive of life by immersion in water or other liquid.

Drown (v. t.) To overpower; to overcome; to extinguish; -- said especially of sound.

Drownage (n.) The act of drowning.

Drowner (n.) One who, or that which, drowns.

Drowsed (imp. & p. p.) of Drowse

Drowsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drowse

Drowse (v. i.) To sleep imperfectly or unsoundly; to slumber; to be heavy with sleepiness; to doze.

Drowse (v. t.) To make heavy with sleepiness or imperfect sleep; to make dull or stupid.

Drowse (n.) A slight or imperfect sleep; a doze.

Drowsihead (n.) Drowsiness.

Drowsihed (n.) Drowsihead.

Drowsily (adv.) In a drowsy manner.

Drowsiness (n.) State of being drowsy.

Drowsy (superl.) Inclined to drowse; heavy with sleepiness; lethargic; dozy.

Drowsy (superl.) Disposing to sleep; lulling; soporific.

Drowsy (superl.) Dull; stupid.

Drowth (n.) See Drought.

Droyle (v. i.) See Droil.

Drubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Drub

Drubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drub

Drub (v. t.) To beat with a stick; to thrash; to cudgel.

Drub (n.) A blow with a cudgel; a thump.

Drubber (n.) One who drubs.

Drudged (imp. & p. p.) of Drudge

Drudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drudge

Drudge (v. i.) To perform menial work; to labor in mean or unpleasant offices with toil and fatigue.

Drudge (v. t.) To consume laboriously; -- with away.

Drudge (n.) One who drudges; one who works hard in servile employment; a mental servant.

Drudger (n.) One who drudges; a drudge.

Drudger (n.) A dredging box.

Drudgery (n.) The act of drudging; disagreeable and wearisome labor; ignoble or slavish toil.

Drudging box () See Dredging box.

Drudgingly (adv.) In a drudging manner; laboriously.

Druery (n.) Courtship; gallantry; love; an object of love.

Drug (v. i.) To drudge; to toil laboriously.

Drug (n.) A drudge (?).

Drug (n.) Any animal, vegetable, or mineral substance used in the composition of medicines; any stuff used in dyeing or in chemical operations.

Drug (n.) Any commodity that lies on hand, or is not salable; an article of slow sale, or in no demand.

Drugged (imp. & p. p.) of Drug

Drugging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drug

Drug (v. i.) To prescribe or administer drugs or medicines.

Drug (v. t.) To affect or season with drugs or ingredients; esp., to stupefy by a narcotic drug. Also Fig.

Drug (v. t.) To tincture with something offensive or injurious.

Drug (v. t.) To dose to excess with, or as with, drugs.

Drugger (n.) A druggist.

Drugget (n.) A coarse woolen cloth dyed of one color or printed on one side; generally used as a covering for carpets.

Drugget (n.) By extension, any material used for the same purpose.

Druggist (n.) One who deals in drugs; especially, one who buys and sells drugs without compounding them; also, a pharmaceutist or apothecary.

Drugster (n.) A druggist.

Druid (n.) One of an order of priests which in ancient times existed among certain branches of the Celtic race, especially among the Gauls and Britons.

Druid (n.) A member of a social and benevolent order, founded in London in 1781, and professedly based on the traditions of the ancient Druids. Lodges or groves of the society are established in other countries.

Druidess (n.) A female Druid; a prophetess.

Druidic (a.) Alt. of Druidical

Druidical (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the Druids.

Druidish (a.) Druidic.

Druidism (n.) The system of religion, philosophy, and instruction, received and taught by the Druids; the rites and ceremonies of the Druids.

Drum (n.) An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollow cylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin or vellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere (kettledrum) with a single piece of skin to be so beaten; the common instrument for marking time in martial music; one of the pair of tympani in an orchestra, or cavalry band.

Drum (n.) Anything resembling a drum in form

Drum (n.) A sheet iron radiator, often in the shape of a drum, for warming an apartment by means of heat received from a stovepipe, or a cylindrical receiver for steam, etc.

Drum (n.) A small cylindrical box in which figs, etc., are packed.

Drum (n.) The tympanum of the ear; -- often, but incorrectly, applied to the tympanic membrane.

Drum (n.) One of the cylindrical, or nearly cylindrical, blocks, of which the shaft of a column is composed; also, a vertical wall, whether circular or polygonal in plan, carrying a cupola or dome.

Drum (n.) A cylinder on a revolving shaft, generally for the purpose of driving several pulleys, by means of belts or straps passing around its periphery; also, the barrel of a hoisting machine, on which the rope or chain is wound.

Drum (n.) See Drumfish.

Drum (n.) A noisy, tumultuous assembly of fashionable people at a private house; a rout.

Drum (n.) A tea party; a kettledrum.

Drummed (imp. & p. p.) of Drum

Drumming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drum

Drum (v. i.) To beat a drum with sticks; to beat or play a tune on a drum.

Drum (v. i.) To beat with the fingers, as with drumsticks; to beat with a rapid succession of strokes; to make a noise like that of a beaten drum; as, the ruffed grouse drums with his wings.

Drum (v. i.) To throb, as the heart.

Drum (v. i.) To go about, as a drummer does, to gather recruits, to draw or secure partisans, customers, etc,; -- with for.

Drum (v. t.) To execute on a drum, as a tune.

Drum (v. t.) (With out) To expel ignominiously, with beat of drum; as, to drum out a deserter or rogue from a camp, etc.

Drum (v. t.) (With up) To assemble by, or as by, beat of drum; to collect; to gather or draw by solicitation; as, to drum up recruits; to drum up customers.

Drumbeat (n.) The sound of a beaten drum; drum music.

Drumble (v. i.) To be sluggish or lazy; to be confused.

Drumble (v. i.) To mumble in speaking.

Drumfish (n.) Any fish of the family Sciaenidae, which makes a loud noise by means of its air bladder; -- called also drum.

Drumhead (n.) The parchment or skin stretched over one end of a drum.

Drumhead (n.) The top of a capstan which is pierced with sockets for levers used in turning it. See Illust. of Capstan.

Drumlin (n.) A hill of compact, unstratified, glacial drift or till, usually elongate or oval, with the larger axis parallel to the former local glacial motion.

Drumly (a.) Turbid; muddy.

Drum major () .

Drum major () The chief or first drummer of a regiment; an instructor of drummers.

Drum major () The marching leader of a military band.

Drum major () A noisy gathering. [R.] See under Drum, n., 4.

Drummer (n.) One whose office is to best the drum, as in military exercises and marching.

Drummer (n.) One who solicits custom; a commercial traveler.

Drummer (n.) A fish that makes a sound when caught

Drummer (n.) The squeteague.

Drummer (n.) A California sculpin.

Drummer (n.) A large West Indian cockroach (Blatta gigantea) which drums on woodwork, as a sexual call.

Drumming (n.) The act of beating upon, or as if upon, a drum; also, the noise which the male of the ruffed grouse makes in spring, by beating his wings upon his sides.

Drummond light () A very intense light, produced by turning two streams of gas, one oxygen and the other hydrogen, or coal gas, in a state of ignition, upon a ball of lime; or a stream of oxygen gas through a flame of alcohol upon a ball or disk of lime; -- called also oxycalcium light, or lime light.

Drumstick (n.) A stick with which a drum is beaten.

Drumstick (n.) Anything resembling a drumstick in form, as the tibiotarsus, or second joint, of the leg of a fowl.

Drunk (a.) Intoxicated with, or as with, strong drink; inebriated; drunken; -- never used attributively, but always predicatively; as, the man is drunk (not, a drunk man).

Drunk (a.) Drenched or saturated with moisture or liquid.

Drunk (n.) A drunken condition; a spree.

Drunkard (n.) One who habitually drinks strong liquors immoderately; one whose habit it is to get drunk; a toper; a sot.

Drunken (v. i.) Overcome by strong drink; intoxicated by, or as by, spirituous liquor; inebriated.

Drunken (v. i.) Saturated with liquid or moisture; drenched.

Drunken (v. i.) Pertaining to, or proceeding from, intoxication.

Drunkenhead (n.) Drunkenness.

Drunkenly (adv.) In a drunken manner.

Drunkenness (n.) The state of being drunken with, or as with, alcoholic liquor; intoxication; inebriety; -- used of the casual state or the habit.

Drunkenness (n.) Disorder of the faculties, resembling intoxication by liquors; inflammation; frenzy; rage.

Drunkenship (n.) Alt. of Drunkship

Drunkship (n.) The state of being drunk; drunkenness.

Drupaceous (a.) Producing, or pertaining to, drupes; having the form of drupes; as, drupaceous trees or fruits.

Drupal (a.) Drupaceous.

Drupe (n.) A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp, without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel. The exocarp is succulent in the plum, cherry, apricot, peach, etc.; dry and subcoriaceous in the almond; and fibrous in the cocoanut.

Drupel (n.) Alt. of Drupelet

Drupelet (n.) A small drupe, as one of the pulpy grains of the blackberry.

Druse (n.) A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded with crystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode.

Druse (n.) One of a people and religious sect dwelling chiefly in the Lebanon mountains of Syria.

Drusy (a.) Alt. of Drused

Drused (a.) Covered with a large number of minute crystals.

Druxey (a.) Alt. of Druxy

Druxy (a.) Having decayed spots or streaks of a whitish color; -- said of timber.

Dry (superl.) Free from moisture; having little humidity or none; arid; not wet or moist; deficient in the natural or normal supply of moisture, as rain or fluid of any kind; -- said especially: (a) Of the weather: Free from rain or mist.

Dry (superl.) Of vegetable matter: Free from juices or sap; not succulent; not green; as, dry wood or hay.

Dry (superl.) Of animals: Not giving milk; as, the cow is dry.

Dry (superl.) Of persons: Thirsty; needing drink.

Dry (superl.) Of the eyes: Not shedding tears.

Dry (superl.) Of certain morbid conditions, in which there is entire or comparative absence of moisture; as, dry gangrene; dry catarrh.

Dry (superl.) Destitute of that which interests or amuses; barren; unembellished; jejune; plain.

Dry (superl.) Characterized by a quality somewhat severe, grave, or hard; hence, sharp; keen; shrewd; quaint; as, a dry tone or manner; dry wit.

Dry (superl.) Exhibiting a sharp, frigid preciseness of execution, or the want of a delicate contour in form, and of easy transition in coloring.

Dried (imp. & p. p.) of Dry

Drying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dry

Dry (a.) To make dry; to free from water, or from moisture of any kind, and by any means; to exsiccate; as, to dry the eyes; to dry one's tears; the wind dries the earth; to dry a wet cloth; to dry hay.

Dry (v. i.) To grow dry; to become free from wetness, moisture, or juice; as, the road dries rapidly.

Dry (v. i.) To evaporate wholly; to be exhaled; -- said of moisture, or a liquid; -- sometimes with up; as, the stream dries, or dries up.

Dry (v. i.) To shrivel or wither; to lose vitality.

Dryad (n.) A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of her tree.

Dryandra (n.) A genus of shrubs growing in Australia, having beautiful, hard, dry, evergreen leaves.

Dryades (pl. ) of Dryas

Dryas (n.) A dryad.

Dry-beat (v. t.) To beat severely.

Dry-boned (a.) Having dry bones, or bones without flesh.

Dry dock () See under Dock.

Dryer (n.) See Drier.

Dry-eyed (a.) Not having tears in the eyes.

Dry-fisted (a.) Niggardly.

Dryfoot (n.) The scent of the game, as far as it can be traced.

Dry goods () A commercial name for textile fabrics, cottons, woolens, linen, silks, laces, etc., -- in distinction from groceries.

Drying (a.) Adapted or tending to exhaust moisture; as, a drying wind or day; a drying room.

Drying (a.) Having the quality of rapidly becoming dry.

Dryly (adv.) In a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; without sympathy; coldly.

Dryness (n.) The state of being dry. See Dry.

Dry nurse () A nurse who attends and feeds a child by hand; -- in distinction from a wet nurse, who suckles it.

Drynurse (v. t.) To feed, attend, and bring up without the breast.

Dryobalanops (n.) The genus to which belongs the single species D. Camphora, a lofty resinous tree of Borneo and Sumatra, yielding Borneo camphor and camphor oil.

Dry-rubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Dry-rub

Dry-rubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dry-rub

Dry-rub (v. t.) To rub and cleanse without wetting.

Drysalter (n.) A dealer in salted or dried meats, pickles, sauces, etc., and in the materials used in pickling, salting, and preserving various kinds of food Hence drysalters usually sell a number of saline substances and miscellaneous drugs.

Drysaltery (n.) The articles kept by a drysalter; also, the business of a drysalter.

Dry-shod (a.) Without wetting the feet.

Dry-stone (a.) Constructed of uncemented stone.

Dryth (n.) Alt. of Drith

Drith (n.) Drought.

Duad (n.) A union of two; duality.

Dual (a.) Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two; as, the dual number of nouns, etc. , in Greek.

Dualin (n.) An explosive substance consisting essentially of sawdust or wood pulp, saturated with nitroglycerin and other similar nitro compounds. It is inferior to dynamite, and is more liable to explosion.

Dualism (n.) State of being dual or twofold; a twofold division; any system which is founded on a double principle, or a twofold distinction

Dualism (n.) A view of man as constituted of two original and independent elements, as matter and spirit.

Dualism (n.) A system which accepts two gods, or two original principles, one good and the other evil.

Dualism (n.) The doctrine that all mankind are divided by the arbitrary decree of God, and in his eternal foreknowledge, into two classes, the elect and the reprobate.

Dualism (n.) The theory that each cerebral hemisphere acts independently of the other.

Dualist (n.) One who believes in dualism; a ditheist.

Dualist (n.) One who administers two offices.

Dualistic (a.) Consisting of two; pertaining to dualism or duality.

Duality (n.) The quality or condition of being two or twofold; dual character or usage.

Duan (n.) A division of a poem corresponding to a canto; a poem or song.

Duarchy (n.) Government by two persons.

Dubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Dub

Dubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dub

Dub (v. t.) To confer knighthood upon; as, the king dubbed his son Henry a knight.

Dub (v. t.) To invest with any dignity or new character; to entitle; to call.

Dub (v. t.) To clothe or invest; to ornament; to adorn.

Dub (v. t.) To strike, rub, or dress smooth; to dab;

Dub (v. t.) To dress with an adz; as, to dub a stick of timber smooth.

Dub (v. t.) To strike cloth with teasels to raise a nap.

Dub (v. t.) To rub or dress with grease, as leather in the process of cyrrying it.

Dub (v. t.) To prepare for fighting, as a gamecock, by trimming the hackles and cutting off the comb and wattles.

Dub (v. i.) To make a noise by brisk drumbeats.

Dub (n.) A blow.

Dub (n.) A pool or puddle.

Dubb (n.) The Syrian bear. See under Bear.

Dubber (n.) One who, or that which, dubs.

Dubber (n.) A globular vessel or bottle of leather, used in India to hold ghee, oil, etc.

Dubbing (n.) The act of dubbing, as a knight, etc.

Dubbing (n.) The act of rubbing, smoothing, or dressing; a dressing off smooth with an adz.

Dubbing (n.) A dressing of flour and water used by weavers; a mixture of oil and tallow for dressing leather; daubing.

Dubbing (n.) The body substance of an angler's fly.

Dubieties (pl. ) of Dubiety

Dubiety (n.) Doubtfulness; uncertainty; doubt.

Dubiosities (pl. ) of Dubiosity

Dubiosity (n.) The state of being doubtful; a doubtful statement or thing.

Dubious (a.) Doubtful or not settled in opinion; being in doubt; wavering or fluctuating; undetermined.

Dubious (a.) Occasioning doubt; not clear, or obvious; equivocal; questionable; doubtful; as, a dubious answer.

Dubious (a.) Of uncertain event or issue; as, in dubious battle.

Dubiously (adv.) In a dubious manner.

Dubiousness (n.) State of being dubious.

Dubitable (a.) Liable to be doubted; uncertain.

Dubitancy (n.) Doubt; uncertainty.

Dubitate (v. i.) To doubt.

Dubitation (n.) Act of doubting; doubt.

Dubitative (a.) Tending to doubt; doubtful.

Duboisia (n.) Same as Duboisine.

Duboisine (n.) An alkaloid obtained from the leaves of an Australian tree (Duboisia myoporoides), and regarded as identical with hyoscyamine. It produces dilation of the pupil of the eye.

Ducal (a.) Of or pertaining to a duke.

Ducally (adv.) In the manner of a duke, or in a manner becoming the rank of a duke.

Ducat (n.) A coin, either of gold or silver, of several countries in Europe; originally, one struck in the dominions of a duke.

Ducatoon (n.) A silver coin of several countries of Europe, and of different values.

Duces tecum () A judicial process commanding a person to appear in court and bring with him some piece of evidence or other thing to be produced to the court.

Duchess (n.) The wife or widow of a duke; also, a lady who has the sovereignty of a duchy in her own right.

Duchesse d'Angouleme () A variety of pear of large size and excellent flavor.

Duchies (pl. ) of Duchy

Duchy (n.) The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom.

Duck (n.) A pet; a darling.

Duck (n.) A linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric, finer and lighter than canvas, -- used for the lighter sails of vessels, the sacking of beds, and sometimes for men's clothing.

Duck (n.) The light clothes worn by sailors in hot climates.

Ducked (imp. & p. p.) of Duck

Ducking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Duck

Duck (v. t.) To thrust or plunge under water or other liquid and suddenly withdraw.

Duck (v. t.) To plunge the head of under water, immediately withdrawing it; as, duck the boy.

Duck (v. t.) To bow; to bob down; to move quickly with a downward motion.

Duck (v. i.) To go under the surface of water and immediately reappear; to dive; to plunge the head in water or other liquid; to dip.

Duck (v. i.) To drop the head or person suddenly; to bow.

Duck (v. t.) Any bird of the subfamily Anatinae, family Anatidae.

Duck (v. t.) A sudden inclination of the bead or dropping of the person, resembling the motion of a duck in water.

Duckbill (n.) See Duck mole, under Duck, n.

Duck-billed (a.) Having a bill like that of a duck.

Ducker (n.) One who, or that which, ducks; a plunger; a diver.

Ducker (n.) A cringing, servile person; a fawner.

Ducking () n. & a., from Duck, v. t. & i.

Duck-legged (a.) Having short legs, like a waddling duck; short-legged.

Duckling (n.) A young or little duck.

Duckmeat (n.) Alt. of Duck's-meat

Duck's-meat (n.) Duckweed.

Duck's-bill (a.) Having the form of a duck's bill.

Duck's-foot (n.) The May apple (Podophyllum peltatum).

Duckweed (n.) A genus (Lemna) of small plants, seen floating in great quantity on the surface of stagnant pools fresh water, and supposed to furnish food for ducks; -- called also duckmeat.

Duct (n.) Any tube or canal by which a fluid or other substance is conducted or conveyed.

Duct (n.) One of the vessels of an animal body by which the products of glandular secretion are conveyed to their destination.

Duct (n.) A large, elongated cell, either round or prismatic, usually found associated with woody fiber.

Duct (n.) Guidance; direction.

Ductible (a.) Capable of being drawn out

Ductile (a.) Easily led; tractable; complying; yielding to motives, persuasion, or instruction; as, a ductile people.

Ductile (a.) Capable of being elongated or drawn out, as into wire or threads.

Ductilimeter (n.) An instrument for accurately determining the ductility of metals.

Ductility (n.) The property of a metal which allows it to be drawn into wires or filaments.

Ductility (n.) Tractableness; pliableness.

Duction (n.) Guidance.

Ductless (a.) Having to duct or outlet; as, a ductless gland.

Ductor (n.) One who leads.

Ductor (n.) A contrivance for removing superfluous ink or coloring matter from a roller. See Doctor, 4.

Ducture (n.) Guidance.

Dudder (v. t.) To confuse or confound with noise.

Dudder (v. i.) To shiver or tremble; to dodder.

Dudder (n.) A peddler or hawker, especially of cheap and flashy goods pretended to be smuggled; a duffer.

Duddery (n.) A place where rags are bought and kept for sale.

Dude (n.) A kind of dandy; especially, one characterized by an ultrafashionable style of dress and other affectations.

Dudeen (n.) A short tobacco pipe.

Dudgeon (n.) The root of the box tree, of which hafts for daggers were made.

Dudgeon (n.) The haft of a dagger.

Dudgeon (n.) A dudgeon-hafted dagger; a dagger.

Dudgeon (n.) Resentment; ill will; anger; displeasure.

Dudgeon (a.) Homely; rude; coarse.

Dudish (a.) Like, or characterized of, a dude.

Duds (n. pl.) Old or inferior clothes; tattered garments.

Duds (n. pl.) Effects, in general.

Due (a.) Owed, as a debt; that ought to be paid or done to or for another; payable; owing and demandable.

Due (a.) Justly claimed as a right or property; proper; suitable; becoming; appropriate; fit.

Due (a.) Such as (a thing) ought to be; fulfilling obligation; proper; lawful; regular; appointed; sufficient; exact; as, due process of law; due service; in due time.

Due (a.) Appointed or required to arrive at a given time; as, the steamer was due yesterday.

Due (a.) Owing; ascribable, as to a cause.

Due (adv.) Directly; exactly; as, a due east course.

Due (n.) That which is owed; debt; that which one contracts to pay, or do, to or for another; that which belongs or may be claimed as a right; whatever custom, law, or morality requires to be done; a fee; a toll.

Due (n.) Right; just title or claim.

Due (v. t.) To endue.

Duebill (n.) A brief written acknowledgment of a debt, not made payable to order, like a promissory note.

Dueful (a.) Fit; becoming.

Duel (n.) A combat between two persons, fought with deadly weapons, by agreement. It usually arises from an injury done or an affront given by one to the other.

Duel (v. i. & t.) To fight in single combat.

Dueler (n.) One who engages in a duel.

Dueling (n.) The act or practice of fighting in single combat. Also adj.

Duelist (n.) One who fights in single combat.

Duelo (n.) A duel; also, the rules of dueling.

Duea (n.) See Doa.

Dueness (n.) Quality of being due; debt; what is due or becoming.

Duennas (pl. ) of Duenna

Duenna (n.) The chief lady in waiting on the queen of Spain.

Duenna (n.) An elderly lady holding a station between a governess and companion, and appointed to have charge over the younger ladies in a Spanish or a Portuguese family.

Duenna (n.) Any old woman who is employed to guard a younger one; a governess.

Duet (n.) A composition for two performers, whether vocal or instrumental.

Duettino (n.) A duet of short extent and concise form.

Duetto (n.) See Duet.

Duff (n.) Dough or paste.

Duff (n.) A stiff flour pudding, boiled in a bag; -- a term used especially by seamen; as, plum duff.

Duffel (n.) A kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze.

Duffer (n.) A peddler or hawker, especially of cheap, flashy articles, as sham jewelry; hence, a sham or cheat.

Duffer (n.) A stupid, awkward, inefficient person.

Duffle (n.) See Duffel.

Dufrenite (n.) A mineral of a blackish green color, commonly massive or in nodules. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron.

Dug (n.) A teat, pap, or nipple; -- formerly that of a human mother, now that of a cow or other beast.

Dug (imp. & p. p.) of Dig.

Dugong (n.) An aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong), of the order Sirenia, allied to the manatee, but with a bilobed tail. It inhabits the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, East Indies, and Australia.

Dugout (n.) A canoe or boat dug out from a large log.

Dugout (n.) A place dug out.

Dugout (n.) A house made partly in a hillside or slighter elevation.

Dugway (n.) A way or road dug through a hill, or sunk below the surface of the land.

Duke (n.) A leader; a chief; a prince.

Duke (n.) In England, one of the highest order of nobility after princes and princesses of the royal blood and the four archbishops of England and Ireland.

Duke (n.) In some European countries, a sovereign prince, without the title of king.

Duke (v. i.) To play the duke.

Dukedom (n.) The territory of a duke.

Dukedom (n.) The title or dignity of a duke.

Dukeling (n.) A little or insignificant duke.

Dukeship (n.) The quality or condition of being a duke; also, the personality of a duke.

Dulcamara (n.) A plant (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet, n., 3 (a).

Dulcamarin (n.) A glucoside extracted from the bittersweet (Solanum Dulcamara), as a yellow amorphous substance. It probably occasions the compound taste. See Bittersweet, 3(a).

Dulce (v. t.) To make sweet; to soothe.

Dulceness (n.) Sweetness.

Dulcet (a.) Sweet to the taste; luscious.

Dulcet (a.) Sweet to the ear; melodious; harmonious.

Dulciana (n.) A sweet-toned stop of an organ.

Dulcification (n.) The act of dulcifying or sweetening.

Dulcified (a.) Sweetened; mollified.

Dulcifluous (a.) Flowing sweetly.

Dulcified (imp. & p. p.) of Dulcify

Dulcifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dulcify

Dulcify (v. t.) To sweeten; to free from acidity, saltness, or acrimony.

Dulcify (v. t.) Fig. : To mollify; to sweeten; to please.

Dulciloquy (n.) A soft manner of speaking.

Dulcimer (n.) An instrument, having stretched metallic wires which are beaten with two light hammers held in the hands of the performer.

Dulcimer (n.) An ancient musical instrument in use among the Jews. Dan. iii. 5. It is supposed to be the same with the psaltery.

Dulcinea (n.) A mistress; a sweetheart.

Dulciness (n.) See Dulceness.

Dulcite (n.) A white, sugarlike substance, C6H8.(OH)2, occurring naturally in a manna from Madagascar, and in certain plants, and produced artificially by the reduction of galactose and lactose or milk sugar.

Dulcino (n.) See Dolcino.

Dulcitude (n.) Sweetness.

Dulcorate (v. t.) To sweeten; to make less acrimonious.

Dulcoration (n.) The act of sweetening.

Duledge (n.) One of the dowels joining the ends of the fellies which form the circle of the wheel of a gun carriage.

Dulia (n.) An inferior kind of veneration or worship, given to the angels and saints as the servants of God.

Dull (superl.) Slow of understanding; wanting readiness of apprehension; stupid; doltish; blockish.

Dull (superl.) Slow in action; sluggish; unready; awkward.

Dull (superl.) Insensible; unfeeling.

Dull (superl.) Not keen in edge or point; lacking sharpness; blunt.

Dull (superl.) Not bright or clear to the eye; wanting in liveliness of color or luster; not vivid; obscure; dim; as, a dull fire or lamp; a dull red or yellow; a dull mirror.

Dull (superl.) Heavy; gross; cloggy; insensible; spiritless; lifeless; inert.

Dull (superl.) Furnishing little delight, spirit, or variety; uninteresting; tedious; cheerless; gloomy; melancholy; depressing; as, a dull story or sermon; a dull occupation or period; hence, cloudy; overcast; as, a dull day.

Duller (imp. & p. p.) of Dull

Dulling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dull

Dull (v. t.) To deprive of sharpness of edge or point.

Dull (v. t.) To make dull, stupid, or sluggish; to stupefy, as the senses, the feelings, the perceptions, and the like.

Dull (v. t.) To render dim or obscure; to sully; to tarnish.

Dull (v. t.) To deprive of liveliness or activity; to render heavy; to make inert; to depress; to weary; to sadden.

Dull (v. i.) To become dull or stupid.

Dullard (n.) A stupid person; a dunce.

Dullard (a.) Stupid.

Dull-brained (a.) Stupid; doltish.

Dull-browed (a.) Having a gloomy look.

Duller (n.) One who, or that which, dulls.

Dull-eyed (a.) Having eyes wanting brightness, liveliness, or vivacity.

Dullhead (n.) A blockhead; a dolt.

Dullish (a.) Somewhat dull; uninteresting; tiresome.

Dullness (n.) The state of being dull; slowness; stupidity; heaviness; drowsiness; bluntness; obtuseness; dimness; want of luster; want of vividness, or of brightness.

Dull-sighted (a.) Having poor eyesight.

Dullsome (a.) Dull.

Dull-witted (a.) Stupid.

Dully (adv.) In a dull manner; stupidly; slowly; sluggishly; without life or spirit.

Dulocracy (n.) See Doulocracy.

Dulse (n.) A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten, as in Scotland. The true dulse is Sarcophyllis edulis; the common is Rhodymenia. [Written also dillisk.]

Dulwilly (n.) The ring plover.

Duly (adv.) In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything) ought to be; properly; regularly.

Dumal (a.) Pertaining to, or set with, briers or bushes; brambly.

Dumb (a.) Destitute of the power of speech; unable; to utter articulate sounds; as, the dumb brutes.

Dumb (a.) Not willing to speak; mute; silent; not speaking; not accompanied by words; as, dumb show.

Dumb (a.) Lacking brightness or clearness, as a color.

Dumb (v. t.) To put to silence.

Dumb-bell (n.) A weight, consisting of two spheres or spheroids, connected by a short bar for a handle; used (often in pairs) for gymnastic exercise.

Dumbledor (n.) A bumblebee; also, a cockchafer.

Dumbly (adv.) In silence; mutely.

Dumbness (n.) The quality or state of being dumb; muteness; silence; inability to speak.

Dumb-waiter (n.) A framework on which dishes, food, etc., are passed from one room or story of a house to another; a lift for dishes, etc.; also, a piece of furniture with movable or revolving shelves.

Dumetose (a.) Dumose.

Dumfounded (imp. & p. p.) of Dumfound

Dumfounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dumfound

Dumfound (v. t.) To strike dumb; to confuse with astonishment.

Dumfounder (v. t.) To dumfound; to confound.

Dummador (n.) A dumbledor.

Dummerer (n.) One who feigns dumbness.

Dummy (a.) Silent; mute; noiseless; as a dummy engine.

Dummy (a.) Fictitious or sham; feigned; as, a dummy watch.

Dummies (pl. ) of Dummy

Dummy (n.) One who is dumb.

Dummy (n.) A sham package in a shop, or one which does not contain what its exterior indicates.

Dummy (n.) An imitation or copy of something, to be used as a substitute; a model; a lay figure; as, a figure on which clothing is exhibited in shop windows; a blank paper copy used to show the size of the future book, etc.

Dummy (n.) One who plays a merely nominal part in any action; a sham character.

Dummy (n.) A thick-witted person; a dolt.

Dummy (n.) A locomotive with condensing engines, and, hence, without the noise of escaping steam; also, a dummy car.

Dummy (n.) The fourth or exposed hand when three persons play at a four-handed game of cards.

Dummy (n.) A floating barge connected with a pier.

Dumose (a.) Alt. of Dumous

Dumous (a.) Abounding with bushes and briers.

Dumous (a.) Having a compact, bushy form.

Dump (n.) A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boys in playing chuck farthing.

Dump (v. t.) A dull, gloomy state of the mind; sadness; melancholy; low spirits; despondency; ill humor; -- now used only in the plural.

Dump (v. t.) Absence of mind; revery.

Dump (v. t.) A melancholy strain or tune in music; any tune.

Dump (v. t.) An old kind of dance.

Dumped (imp. & p. p.) of Dump

Dumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dump

Dump (v. t.) To knock heavily; to stump.

Dump (v. t.) To put or throw down with more or less of violence; hence, to unload from a cart by tilting it; as, to dump sand, coal, etc.

Dump (n.) A car or boat for dumping refuse, etc.

Dump (n.) A ground or place for dumping ashes, refuse, etc.

Dump (n.) That which is dumped.

Dump (n.) A pile of ore or rock.

Dumpage (n.) The act of dumping loads from carts, especially loads of refuse matter; also, a heap of dumped matter.

Dumpage (n.) A fee paid for the privilege of dumping loads.

Dumpiness (n.) The state of being dumpy.

Dumpish (a.) Dull; stupid; sad; moping; melancholy.

Dumple (v. t.) To make dumpy; to fold, or bend, as one part over another.

Dumpling (n.) A roundish mass of dough boiled in soup, or as a sort of pudding; often, a cover of paste inclosing an apple or other fruit, and boiled or baked; as, an apple dumpling.

Dumpy (superl.) Short and thick; of low stature and disproportionately stout.

Dumpy (superl.) Sullen or discontented.

Dun (n.) A mound or small hill.

Dun (v. t.) To cure, as codfish, in a particular manner, by laying them, after salting, in a pile in a dark place, covered with salt grass or some like substance.

Dunned (imp. & p. p.) of Dun

Dunning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dun

Dun (v. t. & i.) To ask or beset, as a debtor, for payment; to urge importunately.

Dun (n.) One who duns; a dunner.

Dun (n.) An urgent request or demand of payment; as, he sent his debtor a dun.

Dun (a.) Of a dark color; of a color partaking of a brown and black; of a dull brown color; swarthy.

Dunbird (n.) The pochard; -- called also dunair, and dunker, or dun-curre.

Dunbird (n.) An American duck; the ruddy duck.

Dunce (n.) One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull or weak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt.

Duncedom (n.) The realm or domain of dunces.

Duncery (n.) Dullness; stupidity.

Duncical (a.) Like a dunce; duncish.

Duncify (v. t.) To make stupid in intellect.

Duncish (a.) Somewhat like a dunce.

Dunder (n.) The lees or dregs of cane juice, used in the distillation of rum.

Dunderhead (n.) A dunce; a numskull; a blockhead.

Dunder-headed (a.) Thick-headed; stupid.

Dunderpate (n.) See Dunderhead.

Dune (n.) A low hill of drifting sand usually formed on the coats, but often carried far inland by the prevailing winds.

Dunfish (n.) Codfish cured in a particular manner, so as to be of a superior quality.

Dung (n.) The excrement of an animal.

Dunged (imp. & p. p.) of Dung

Dunging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dung

Dung (v. t.) To manure with dung.

Dung (v. t.) To immerse or steep, as calico, in a bath of hot water containing cow dung; -- done to remove the superfluous mordant.

Dung (v. i.) To void excrement.

Dungaree (n.) A coarse kind of unbleached cotton stuff.

Dungeon (n.) A close, dark prison, common/, under ground, as if the lower apartments of the donjon or keep of a castle, these being used as prisons.

Dungeon (v. t.) To shut up in a dungeon.

Dungfork (n.) A fork for tossing dung.

Dunghill (n.) A heap of dung.

Dunghill (n.) Any mean situation or condition; a vile abode.

Dungmeer (n.) A pit where dung and weeds rot for manure.

Dungy (a.) Full of dung; filthy; vile; low.

Dungyard (n.) A yard where dung is collected.

Dunker (n.) One of a religious denomination whose tenets and practices are mainly those of the Baptists, but partly those of the Quakers; -- called also Tunkers, Dunkards, Dippers, and, by themselves, Brethren, and German Baptists.

Dunlin (n.) A species of sandpiper (Tringa alpina); -- called also churr, dorbie, grass bird, and red-backed sandpiper. It is found both in Europe and America.

Dunnage (n.) Fagots, boughs, or loose materials of any kind, laid on the bottom of the hold for the cargo to rest upon to prevent injury by water, or stowed among casks and other cargo to prevent their motion.

Dunner (n.) One employed in soliciting the payment of debts.

Dunnish (a.) Inclined to a dun color.

Dunnock (a.) The hedge sparrow or hedge accentor.

Dunny (a.) Deaf; stupid.

Dunt (n.) A blow.

Dunted (a.) Beaten; hence, blunted.

Dunter (n.) A porpoise.

Duo (n.) A composition for two performers; a duet.

Duodecahedral (n.) Alt. of Duodecahedron

Duodecahedron (n.) See Dodecahedral, and Dodecahedron.

Duodecennial (a.) Consisting of twelve years.

Duodecimal (a.) Proceeding in computation by twelves; expressed in the scale of twelves.

Duodecimal (n.) A twelfth part; as, the duodecimals of an inch.

Duodecimal (n.) A system of numbers, whose denominations rise in a scale of twelves, as of feet and inches. The system is used chiefly by artificers in computing the superficial and solid contents of their work.

Duodecimfid (a.) Divided into twelve parts.

Duodecimo (a.) Having twelve leaves to a sheet; as, a duodecimo from, book, leaf, size, etc.

Duodecimos (pl. ) of Duodecimo

Duodecimo (n.) A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into twelve leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of a book; -- usually written 12mo or 12.

Duodecuple (a.) Consisting of twelves.

Duodenal (a.) Of or pertaining to the duodenum; as, duodenal digestion.

Duodenary (a.) Containing twelve; twelvefold; increasing by twelves; duodecimal.

Duodenum (n.) The part of the small intestines between the stomach and the jejunum. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, under Digestive.

Duoliteral (a.) Consisting of two letters only; biliteral.

Duomo (n.) A cathedral. See Dome, 2.

Dup (v. t.) To open; as, to dup the door.

Dupable (a.) Capable of being duped.

Dupe (n.) One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull; as, the dupe of a schemer.

Duped (imp. & p. p.) of Dupe

Duping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dupe

Dupe (n.) To deceive; to trick; to mislead by imposing on one's credulity; to gull; as, dupe one by flattery.

Duper (n.) One who dupes another.

Dupery (n.) The act or practice of duping.

Dupion (n.) A double cocoon, made by two silkworms.

Duple (a.) Double.

Duplex (a.) Double; twofold.

Duplicate (a.) Double; twofold.

Duplicate (n.) That which exactly resembles or corresponds to something else; another, correspondent to the first; hence, a copy; a transcript; a counterpart.

Duplicate (n.) An original instrument repeated; a document which is the same as another in all essential particulars, and differing from a mere copy in having all the validity of an original.

Duplicated (imp. & p. p.) of Duplicate

Duplicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Duplicate

Duplicate (v. t.) To double; to fold; to render double.

Duplicate (v. t.) To make a duplicate of (something); to make a copy or transcript of.

Duplicate (v. t.) To divide into two by natural growth or spontaneous action; as, infusoria duplicate themselves.

Duplication (n.) The act of duplicating, or the state of being duplicated; a doubling; a folding over; a fold.

Duplication (n.) The act or process of dividing by natural growth or spontaneous action; as, the duplication of cartilage cells.

Duplicative (a.) Having the quality of duplicating or doubling.

Duplicative (a.) Having the quality of subdividing into two by natural growth.

Duplicature (n.) A doubling; a fold, as of a membrane.

Duplicities (pl. ) of Duplicity

Duplicity (n.) Doubleness; a twofold state.

Duplicity (n.) Doubleness of heart or speech; insincerity; a sustained form of deception which consists in entertaining or pretending to entertain one of feelings, and acting as if influenced by another; bad faith.

Duplicity (n.) The use of two or more distinct allegations or answers, where one is sufficient.

Duplicity (n.) In indictments, the union of two incompatible offenses.

Dupper (n.) See 2d Dubber.

Dur (a.) Major; in the major mode; as, C dur, that is, C major.

Dura (n.) Short form for Dura mater.

Durability (n.) The state or quality of being durable; the power of uninterrupted or long continuance in any condition; the power of resisting agents or influences which tend to cause changes, decay, or dissolution; lastingness.

Durable (a.) Able to endure or continue in a particular condition; lasting; not perishable or changeable; not wearing out or decaying soon; enduring; as, durable cloth; durable happiness.

Durableness (n.) Power of lasting, enduring, or resisting; durability.

Durably (adv.) In a lasting manner; with long continuance.

Dural (a.) Pertaining to the dura, or dura mater.

Dura mater () The tough, fibrous membrane, which lines the cavity of the skull and spinal column, and surrounds the brain and spinal cord; -- frequently abbreviated to dura.

Duramen (n.) The heartwood of an exogenous tree.

Durance (n.) Continuance; duration. See Endurance.

Durance (n.) Imprisonment; restraint of the person; custody by a jailer; duress. Shak.

Durance (n.) A stout cloth stuff, formerly made in imitation of buff leather and used for garments; a sort of tammy or everlasting.

Durance (n.) In modern manufacture, a worsted of one color used for window blinds and similar purposes.

Durancy (n.) Duration.

Durant (n.) See Durance, 3.

Durante (prep.) During; as, durante vita, during life; durante bene placito, during pleasure.

Duration (n.) The state or quality of lasting; continuance in time; the portion of time during which anything exists.

Durative (a.) Continuing; not completed; implying duration.

Durbar (n.) An audience hall; the court of a native prince; a state levee; a formal reception of native princes, given by the governor general of India.

Dure (a.) Hard; harsh; severe; rough; toilsome.

Dure (a.) To last; to continue; to endure.

Dureful (a.) Lasting.

Dureless (a.) Not lasting.

Durene (n.) A colorless, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C6H2(CH3)4, off artificial production, with an odor like camphor.

Duress (n.) Hardship; constraint; pressure; imprisonment; restraint of liberty.

Duress (n.) The state of compulsion or necessity in which a person is influenced, whether by the unlawful restrain of his liberty or by actual or threatened physical violence, to incur a civil liability or to commit an offense.

Duress (v. t.) To subject to duress.

Duressor (n.) One who subjects another to duress

Durga (n.) Same as Doorga.

Durham (n.) One or a breed of short-horned cattle, originating in the county of Durham, England. The Durham cattle are noted for their beef-producing quality.

Durian (n.) Alt. of Durion

Durion (n.) The fruit of the durio. It is oval or globular, and eight or ten inches long. It has a hard prickly rind, containing a soft, cream-colored pulp, of a most delicious flavor and a very offensive odor. The seeds are roasted and eaten like chestnuts.

During (prep.) In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as, during life; during the space of a year.

Durio (n.) A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known) of the Indian Archipelago. It bears the durian.

Durity (n.) Hardness; firmness.

Durity (n.) Harshness; cruelty.

Durometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the degree of hardness; especially, an instrument for testing the relative hardness of steel rails and the like.

Durous (a.) Hard.

Durra (n.) A kind of millet, cultivated throughout Asia, and introduced into the south of Europe; a variety of Sorghum vulgare; -- called also Indian millet, and Guinea corn.

Durst (imp.) of Dare. See Dare, v. i.

Durukuli (n.) A small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecus trivirgatus).

Durylic (a.) Pertaining to, allied to, or derived from, durene; as, durylic acid.

Duse (n.) A demon or spirit. See Deuce.

Dusk (a.) Tending to darkness or blackness; moderately dark or black; dusky.

Dusk (n.) Imperfect obscurity; a middle degree between light and darkness; twilight; as, the dusk of the evening.

Dusk (n.) A darkish color.

Dusk (v. t.) To make dusk.

Dusk (v. i.) To grow dusk.

Dusken (v. t.) To make dusk or obscure.

Duskily (adv.) In a dusky manner.

Duskiness (n.) The state of being dusky.

Duskish (a.) Somewhat dusky.

Duskness (n.) Duskiness.

Dusky (a.) Partially dark or obscure; not luminous; dusk; as, a dusky valley.

Dusky (a.) Tending to blackness in color; partially black; dark-colored; not bright; as, a dusky brown.

Dusky (a.) Gloomy; sad; melancholy.

Dusky (a.) Intellectually clouded.

Dust (n.) Fine, dry particles of earth or other matter, so comminuted that they may be raised and wafted by the wind; that which is crumbled too minute portions; fine powder; as, clouds of dust; bone dust.

Dust (n.) A single particle of earth or other matter.

Dust (n.) The earth, as the resting place of the dead.

Dust (n.) The earthy remains of bodies once alive; the remains of the human body.

Dust (n.) Figuratively, a worthless thing.

Dust (n.) Figuratively, a low or mean condition.

Dust (n.) Gold dust

Dust (n.) Coined money; cash.

Dusted (imp. & p. p.) of Dust

Dusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dust

Dust (v. t.) To free from dust; to brush, wipe, or sweep away dust from; as, to dust a table or a floor.

Dust (v. t.) To sprinkle with dust.

Dust (v. t.) To reduce to a fine powder; to levigate.

Dustbrush (n.) A brush of feathers, bristles, or hair, for removing dust from furniture.

Duster (n.) One who, or that which, dusts; a utensil that frees from dust.

Duster (n.) A revolving wire-cloth cylinder which removes the dust from rags, etc.

Duster (n.) A blowing machine for separating the flour from the bran.

Duster (n.) A light over-garment, worn in traveling to protect the clothing from dust.

Dustiness (n.) The state of being dusty.

Dustless (a.) Without dust; as a dustless path.

Dustmen (pl. ) of Dustman

Dustman (p.) One whose employment is to remove dirt and defuse.

Dustpan (n.) A shovel-like utensil for conveying away dust brushed from the floor.

Dust-point (n.) An old rural game.

Dusty (superl.) Filled, covered, or sprinkled with dust; clouded with dust; as, a dusty table; also, reducing to dust.

Dusty (superl.) Like dust; of the color of dust; as a dusty white.

Dutch (a.) Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants.

Dutch (n.) The people of Holland; Dutchmen.

Dutch (n.) The language spoken in Holland.

Dutchmen (pl. ) of Dutchman

Dutchman (n.) A native, or one of the people, of Holland.

Duteous (a.) Fulfilling duty; dutiful; having the sentiments due to a superior, or to one to whom respect or service is owed; obedient; as, a duteous son or daughter.

Duteous (a.) Subservient; obsequious.

Dutiable (a.) Subject to the payment of a duty; as dutiable goods.

Dutied (a.) Subjected to a duty.

Dutiful (a.) Performing, or ready to perform, the duties required by one who has the right to claim submission, obedience, or deference; submissive to natural or legal superiors; obedient, as to parents or superiors; as, a dutiful son or daughter; a dutiful ward or servant; a dutiful subject.

Dutiful (a.) Controlled by, proceeding from, a sense of duty; respectful; deferential; as, dutiful affection.

Duties (pl. ) of Duty

Duty (n.) That which is due; payment.

Duty (n.) That which a person is bound by moral obligation to do, or refrain from doing; that which one ought to do; service morally obligatory.

Duty (n.) Hence, any assigned service or business; as, the duties of a policeman, or a soldier; to be on duty.

Duty (n.) Specifically, obedience or submission due to parents and superiors.

Duty (n.) Respect; reverence; regard; act of respect; homage.

Duty (n.) The efficiency of an engine, especially a steam pumping engine, as measured by work done by a certain quantity of fuel; usually, the number of pounds of water lifted one foot by one bushel of coal (94 lbs. old standard), or by 1 cwt. (112 lbs., England, or 100 lbs., United States).

Duty (n.) Tax, toll, impost, or customs; excise; any sum of money required by government to be paid on the importation, exportation, or consumption of goods.

Duumvirs (pl. ) of Duumvir

Duumviri (pl. ) of Duumvir

Duumvir (n.) One of two Roman officers or magistrates united in the same public functions.

Duumviral (a.) Of or belonging to the duumviri or the duumvirate.

Duumvirate (n.) The union of two men in the same office; or the office, dignity, or government of two men thus associated, as in ancient Rome.

Dux (n.) The scholastic name for the theme or subject of a fugue, the answer being called the comes, or companion.

Duykerbok (n.) A small South African antelope (Cephalous mergens); -- called also impoon, and deloo.

Duyoung (n.) See Dugong.

D valve () A kind of slide valve. See Slide valve, under Slide.

Dvergar (pl. ) of Dvergr

Dvergr (n.) A dwarf supposed to dwell in rocks and hills and to be skillful in working metals.

Dwale (a.) The deadly nightshade (Atropa Belladonna), having stupefying qualities.

Dwale (a.) The tincture sable or black when blazoned according to the fantastic system in which plants are substituted for the tinctures.

Dwale (a.) A sleeping potion; an opiate.

Dwang (n.) A piece of wood set between two studs, posts, etc., to stiffen and support them.

Dwang (n.) A kind of crowbar.

Dwang (n.) A large wrench.

Dwarfs (pl. ) of Dwarf

Dwarf (n.) An animal or plant which is much below the ordinary size of its species or kind; especially, a diminutive human being.

Dwarfed (imp. & p. p.) of Dwarf

Dwarfing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dwarf

Dwarf (v. t.) To hinder from growing to the natural size; to make or keep small; to stunt.

Dwarf (v. i.) To become small; to diminish in size.

Dwarfish (a.) Like a dwarf; below the common stature or size; very small; petty; as, a dwarfish animal, shrub.

Dwarfling (n.) A diminutive dwarf.

Dwarfy (a.) Much undersized.

Dwaul (v. i.) Alt. of Dwaule

Dwaule (v. i.) To be delirious.

Dwelled (imp. & p. p.) of Dwell

Dwelt () of Dwell

Dwelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dwell

Dwell (v. i.) To delay; to linger.

Dwell (v. i.) To abide; to remain; to continue.

Dwell (v. i.) To abide as a permanent resident, or for a time; to live in a place; to reside.

Dwell (v. t.) To inhabit.

Dweller (n.) An inhabitant; a resident; as, a cave dweller.

Dwelling (n.) Habitation; place or house in which a person lives; abode; domicile.

Dwelt (imp. & p. p.) of Dwell.

Dwindled (imp. & p. p.) of Dwindle

Dwindling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dwindle

Dwindle (v. i.) To diminish; to become less; to shrink; to waste or consume away; to become degenerate; to fall away.

Dwindle (v. t.) To make less; to bring low.

Dwindle (v. t.) To break; to disperse.

Dwindle (n.) The process of dwindling; dwindlement; decline; degeneracy.

Dwindlement (n.) The act or process of dwindling; a dwindling.

Dwine (v. i.) To waste away; to pine; to languish.

Dyad (n.) Two units treated as one; a couple; a pair.

Dyad (n.) An element, atom, or radical having a valence or combining power of two.

Dyad (a.) Having a valence or combining power of two; capable of being substituted for, combined with, or replaced by, two atoms of hydrogen; as, oxygen and calcium are dyad elements. See Valence.

Dyadic (a.) Pertaining to the number two; of two parts or elements.

Dyaks (n. pl.) The aboriginal and most numerous inhabitants of Borneo. They are partially civilized, but retain many barbarous practices.

Dyas (n.) A name applied in Germany to the Permian formation, there consisting of two principal groups.

Dyed (imp. & p. p.) of Dye

Dyeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dye

Dye (v. t.) To stain; to color; to give a new and permanent color to, as by the application of dyestuffs.

Dye (n.) Color produced by dyeing.

Dye (n.) Material used for dyeing; a dyestuff.

Dye (n.) Same as Die, a lot.

Dyehouse (n.) A building in which dyeing is carried on.

Dyeing (n.) The process or art of fixing coloring matters permanently and uniformly in the fibers of wool, cotton, etc.

Dyer (n.) One whose occupation is to dye cloth and the like.

Dyestuff (n.) A material used for dyeing.

Dyewood (n.) Any wood from which coloring matter is extracted for dyeing.

Dying (a.) In the act of dying; destined to death; mortal; perishable; as, dying bodies.

Dying (a.) Of or pertaining to dying or death; as, dying bed; dying day; dying words; also, simulating a dying state.

Dying (n.) The act of expiring; passage from life to death; loss of life.

Dyingly (adv.) In a dying manner; as if at the point of death.

Dyingness (n.) The state of dying or the stimulation of such a state; extreme languor; languishment.

Dyke (n.) See Dike. The spelling dyke is restricted by some to the geological meaning.

Dynactinometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the intensity of the photogenic (light-producing) rays, and computing the power of object glasses.

Dynam (n.) A unit of measure for dynamical effect or work; a foot pound. See Foot pound.

Dynameter (n.) A dynamometer.

Dynameter (n.) An instrument for determining the magnifying power of telescopes, consisting usually of a doubleimage micrometer applied to the eye end of a telescope for measuring accurately the diameter of the image of the object glass there formed; which measurement, compared with the actual diameter of the glass, gives the magnifying power.

Dynametrical (a.) Pertaining to a dynameter.

Dynamic (a.) Alt. of Dynamical

Dynamical (a.) Of or pertaining to dynamics; belonging to energy or power; characterized by energy or production of force.

Dynamical (a.) Relating to physical forces, effects, or laws; as, dynamical geology.

Dynamically (adv.) In accordance with the principles of dynamics or moving forces.

Dynamics (n.) That branch of mechanics which treats of the motion of bodies (kinematics) and the action of forces in producing or changing their motion (kinetics). Dynamics is held by some recent writers to include statics and not kinematics.

Dynamics (n.) The moving moral, as well as physical, forces of any kind, or the laws which relate to them.

Dynamics (n.) That department of musical science which relates to, or treats of, the power of tones.

Dynamism (n.) The doctrine of Leibnitz, that all substance involves force.

Dynamist (n.) One who accounts for material phenomena by a theory of dynamics.

Dynamitard (n.) A political dynamiter. [A form found in some newspapers.]

Dynamite (n.) An explosive substance consisting of nitroglycerin absorbed by some inert, porous solid, as infusorial earth, sawdust, etc. It is safer than nitroglycerin, being less liable to explosion from moderate shocks, or from spontaneous decomposition.

Dynamiter (n.) One who uses dynamite; esp., one who uses it for the destruction of life and property.

Dynamiting (n.) Destroying by dynamite, for political ends.

Dynamitism (n.) The work of dynamiters.

Dynamization () The act of setting free the dynamic powers of a medicine, as by shaking the bottle containing it.

Dynamo (n.) A dynamo-electric machine.

Dynamo-electric (a.) Pertaining to the development of electricity, especially electrical currents, by power; producing electricity or electrical currents by mechanical power.

Dynamograph (n.) A dynamometer to which is attached a device for automatically registering muscular power.

Dynamometer (n.) An apparatus for measuring force or power; especially, muscular effort of men or animals, or the power developed by a motor, or that required to operate machinery.

Dynamometric (a.) Alt. of Dynamometrical

Dynamometrical (a.) Relating to a dynamometer, or to the measurement of force doing work; as, dynamometrical instruments.

Dynamometry (n.) The art or process of measuring forces doing work.

Dynast (n.) A ruler; a governor; a prince.

Dynast (n.) A dynasty; a government.

Dynasta (n.) A tyrant.

Dynastic (a.) Of or relating to a dynasty or line of kings.

Dynastical (a.) Dynastic.

Dynastidan (n.) One of a group of gigantic, horned beetles, including Dynastus Neptunus, and the Hercules beetle (D. Hercules) of tropical America, which grow to be six inches in length.

Dynasties (pl. ) of Dynasty

Dynasty (n.) Sovereignty; lordship; dominion.

Dynasty (n.) A race or succession of kings, of the same line or family; the continued lordship of a race of rulers.

Dyne (n.) The unit of force, in the C. G. S. (Centimeter Gram Second) system of physical units; that is, the force which, acting on a gram for a second, generates a velocity of a centimeter per second.

Dys- () An inseparable prefix, fr. the Greek / hard, ill, and signifying ill, bad, hard, difficult, and the like; cf. the prefixes, Skr. dus-, Goth. tuz-, OHG. zur-, G. zer-, AS. to-, Icel. tor-, Ir. do-.

Dysaesthesia (n.) Impairment of any of the senses, esp. of touch.

Dyscrasia (n.) An ill habit or state of the constitution; -- formerly regarded as dependent on a morbid condition of the blood and humors.

Dyscrasite (n.) A mineral consisting of antimony and silver.

Discrasies (pl. ) of Dyscrasy

Dyscrasy (n.) Dycrasia.

Dysenteric (a.) Alt. of Dysenterical

Dysenterical (a.) Of or pertaining to dysentery; having dysentery; as, a dysenteric patient.

Dysentery (n.) A disease attended with inflammation and ulceration of the colon and rectum, and characterized by griping pains, constant desire to evacuate the bowels, and the discharge of mucus and blood.

Dysgenesic (a.) Not procreating or breeding freely; as, one race may be dysgenesic with respect to another.

Dysgenesis (n.) A condition of not generating or breeding freely; infertility; a form homogenesis in which the hybrids are sterile among themselves, but are fertile with members of either parent race.

Dyslogistic (a.) Unfavorable; not commendatory; -- opposed to eulogistic.

Dysluite (n.) A variety of the zinc spinel or gahnite.

Dyslysin (n.) A resinous substance formed in the decomposition of cholic acid of bile; -- so called because it is difficult to solve.

Dysmenorrhea (n.) Difficult and painful menstruation.

Dysnomy (n.) Bad legislation; the enactment of bad laws.

Dysodile (n.) An impure earthy or coaly bitumen, which emits a highly fetid odor when burning.

Dyspepsia () Alt. of Dyspepsy

Dyspepsy () A kind of indigestion; a state of the stomach in which its functions are disturbed, without the presence of other diseases, or, if others are present, they are of minor importance. Its symptoms are loss of appetite, nausea, heartburn, acrid or fetid eructations, a sense of weight or fullness in the stomach, etc.

Dyspeptic (a.) Alt. of Dyspeptical

Dyspeptical (a.) Pertaining to dyspepsia; having dyspepsia; as, a dyspeptic or dyspeptical symptom.

Dyspeptic (n.) A person afflicted with dyspepsia.

Dyspeptone (n.) An insoluble albuminous body formed from casein and other proteid substances by the action of gastric juice.

Dysphagia (n.) Alt. of Dysphagy

Dysphagy (n.) Difficulty in swallowing.

Dysphonia (n.) Alt. of Dysphony

Dysphony (n.) A difficulty in producing vocal sounds; enfeebled or depraved voice.

Dysphoria (n.) Impatience under affliction; morbid restlessness; dissatisfaction; the fidgets.

Dyspnoea (n.) Difficulty of breathing.

Dyspnoic (a.) Affected with shortness of breath; relating to dyspnoea.

Dysteleology (n.) The doctrine of purposelessness; a term applied by Haeckel to that branch of physiology which treats of rudimentary organs, in view of their being useless to the life of the organism.

Dystocia (n.) Difficult delivery pr parturition.

Dystome (a.) Cleaving with difficulty.

Dysuria (n.) Alt. of Dysury

Dysury (n.) Difficult or painful discharge of urine.

Dysuric (a.) Pertaining to, or afflicted with, dysury.

Dzeren (n.) Alt. of Dzeron

Dzeron (n.) The Chinese yellow antelope (Procapra gutturosa), a remarkably swift-footed animal, inhabiting the deserts of Central Asia, Thibet, and China.

Dziggetai (n.) The kiang, a wild horse or wild ass of Thibet (Asinus hemionus).
